Trial

by

Sorcery



Dragon	Riders	of	Osnen	Book	1



RICHARD	FIERCE





Trial	by	Sorcery	©	2020	by	Richard	Fierce





This	is	a	work	of	fiction.	All	events	portrayed	in	this	book	are	fictitious,	and any	 resemblance	 to	 real	 people	 or	 events	 is	 purely	 coincidental.	 All	 rights reserved,	 including	 the	 right	 to	 reproduce	 this	 book	 or	 portions	 thereof	 in any	form	without	the	express	permission	of	the	publisher.





Cover	design	by	germancreative

Cover	art	by	Rosauro	Ugang





Dragonfire	Press



e-Book	ISBN:	978-1-947329-19-5



First	Edition:	2020





TABLE	OF	CONTENTS

Chapter	1

Chapter	2

Chapter	3

Chapter	4

Chapter	5

Chapter	6

Chapter	7

Chapter	8

Chapter	9

Chapter	10

Chapter	11

Chapter	12

Chapter	13

Chapter	14

Chapter	15

Chapter	16

Chapter	17

Chapter	18

Chapter	19

Chapter	20

Chapter	21





1



I	marveled	at	the	vastness	of	the	Citadel.

It	was	home	to	the	Dragon	Guard,	the	greatest	warriors	of	the	kingdom.

While	that	was	impressive	alone,	it	was	made	even	more	amazing	because	it was	also	the	home	of	dragons.	The	massive,	powerful	creatures	were	kept	in the	lower	chamber	of	the	castle.	At	least,	that’s	what	my	father	used	to	tell me.

A	wall	forty	feet	high	surrounded	the	city	of	Autumnwick,	as	well	as	the stone	fortress	that	towered	behind	it.	This	was	my	first	time	seeing	the	place, and	it	was	just	as	large	and	imposing	as	I’d	always	imagined	it	to	be.	The massive	gates	that	provided	entrance	through	the	wall	were	manned	with guards	armed	to	the	teeth.	A	small	line	had	formed	at	the	entrance	as	the guards	checked	everyone	entering.

I	traveled	downhill	and	joined	the	line,	adjusting	my	sword	belt.	The weight	of	the	blade	continuously	pulled	down	on	my	pants.	It	made	me reconsider	my	decision	to	use	a	side	sheath	instead	of	one	that	went	over	the shoulder.	It	was	too	late	to	change	my	mind	now.	I’d	spent	the	last	of	my coins	to	reach	the	Citadel,	and	I	doubted	the	school	would	allow	me	to	carry a	blade	during	my	training	anyway.

The	line	shuffled	forward	slowly.	I	did	my	best	to	remain	patient,	but	it was	difficult.	I	was	finally	here!	The	home	of	the	Dragon	Guard!	I’d	dreamed of	joining	their	ranks	for	as	long	as	I	could	remember.	My	father’s	stories	had always	been	filled	with	awe	and	wonder	as	he	described	his	dragon	and	the bond	they	shared.

Although	it	was	still	early	in	the	day,	the	sky	was	clear	and	the	sun	beat down	mercilessly.	I	could	feel	droplets	of	sweat	running	down	my	back	and sides.	I	drank	the	last	of	the	water	in	my	canteen	and	continued	to	wait.	After what	felt	like	an	eternity	of	baking	in	the	sun,	I	was	next	for	inspection.	I glanced	behind	me	and	saw	the	line	was	much	longer	now.	There	were	at

least	a	hundred	people	waiting	to	get	into	the	city.

“Hold	it	there,	low	born,”	one	of	the	guards	said.

I	looked	ahead,	thinking	he	was	speaking	to	me.	He	wasn’t.	His	attention was	on	a	girl	in	front	of	me	with	long	black	hair.	They’d	already	given	her sack	a	thorough	check,	but	the	one	talking	grabbed	her	by	the	elbow	and pulled	her	aside.	I	couldn’t	hear	what	he	was	saying	to	her	because	he’d lowered	his	voice,	but	whatever	it	was,	the	girl	did	not	look	amused.

“You,	stop	gawking	and	get	over	here.”

The	other	guard	was	glaring	at	me.	I	hurried	forward.	The	guard	looked me	up	and	down	and	frowned.

“What’s	your	business?”	he	asked.

“I’m	here	to	sign	up	for	the	school,”	I	answered,	trying	to	ignore	the	sweat sliding	down	my	back.	The	other	guard	was	still	speaking	with	the	girl,	and he	was	being	a	little	too	touchy	in	my	opinion.

“Another	low	born	seeking	fame	and	riches,	huh?”

The	guard	was	wearing	a	helm,	but	the	ends	of	his	hair	sticking	out	from under	it	were	blond.	He	was	a	high	born,	a	noble.	They	were	all	the	same.

They	thought	they	were	better	than	everyone	else	simply	because	they	were born	with	a	different	shade	of	hair	color.	I’d	been	bullied	in	my	hometown	a few	times,	not	just	for	my	social	standing,	and	I	knew	in	a	city	this	size	that	it would	be	much	worse.

The	problem	with	this	guard,	however,	was	that	he	was	only	paying attention	to	my	hair.	He	clearly	didn’t	notice	the	insignia	that	was	sewn	into my	upper	sleeve.	I	didn’t	like	to	flounce	it,	but	sometimes	it	was	fun	to	bring a	noble	down	a	peg	or	two.

“Stop	it,”	the	girl	with	the	other	guard	shouted.	He’d	pulled	her	close	and was	trying	to	kiss	her.	I’d	seen	enough.	I	turned	my	body	so	that	the	guard could	see	my	insignia	and	smiled	at	him.	His	eyes	widened	for	a	brief moment,	then	he	collected	himself	and	waved	me	through.

“Apologies,”	he	muttered.

I	nodded	at	him,	still	smiling,	and	walked	over	to	where	the	other	guard was	harassing	the	girl.

“Is	there	a	problem,	cousin?”	I	asked.

Both	the	girl	and	the	guard	looked	at	me.	The	girl	was	confused	and	the guard	looked	irritated.

“I	figured	you	would	have	been	lost	in	the	market	by	now,”	I	said	to	the girl.	I	was	hoping	she	would	catch	on	to	what	I	was	doing	and	play	along.	She tilted	her	head	ever	so	slightly	as	a	wordless	sign	of	thanks	and	stepped	back from	the	guard.

“I’m	fine,”	she	huffed.	“This	gentleman	was	just	telling	me	how	to	get	to the	school.”

“How	kind	of	you,	sir,”	I	said,	showing	off	my	insignia	to	him	as	well.	He looked	at	it,	then	looked	me	in	the	eyes.	He	hated	that	he	couldn’t	stop	me.	I could	see	the	seething	anger	in	his	blue	eyes.

“Would	you	mind	repeating	the	directions?	My	cousin	is	terrible	at remembering	things	like	that.	Aren’t	you,	cousin?”

I	exchanged	glances	with	the	girl.	She	shrugged.	“What	can	I	say?	I’m	not used	to	doing	things	on	my	own.”

The	guard	glowered	at	me.	Through	clenched	teeth,	he	said,	“Go	straight.

Through	the	market.	When	you	reach	the	wall,	turn	right.	The	entrance	is	on the	left.”

Before	I	could	antagonize	him	further,	he	stomped	past	me	and	returned to	his	post	with	the	other	guard.

“A	bit	of	a	jerk,	that	one,”	I	said.	The	girl	was	already	through	the	gate, leaving	me	talking	to	myself.	I	followed	her	and	had	to	walk	twice	as	fast	to catch	up.

“I’m	Eldwin,”	I	said.

“Go	away,”	the	girl	replied.

“I’m	sorry,	I	thought	I	just	helped	you	back	there.”

The	girl	stopped	and	turned	around,	placing	her	hands	on	her	hips	and

giving	me	a	death	stare.

“Did	I	ask	for	your	help?”

“No	…”

“Do	I	look	like	some	sort	of	helpless	wench	that	needs	rescue?”	she demanded.

“Uh,	no	…”

“That’s	because	I’m	not,”	she	growled.	“I	can	take	care	of	myself.”

“Sorry,”	I	said	lamely,	putting	my	hands	up.	Her	eyes	widened	slightly	at the	sight	of	my	right	hand.	“I	didn’t	mean	to	upset	you.	I	just	thought	…

never	mind.	Forget	that	I	said	or	did	anything.”

I	walked	past	her	and	continued	following	the	road.	The	girl’s	response	to seeing	my	mangled	hand	was	the	same	as	everyone	else	who	saw	it.	Horror, disgust,	you	name	it.	It	came	as	no	surprise	to	me	anymore.

The	buildings	on	either	side	were	short	and	squat,	all	of	them	built	with	a dull	gray	stone.	The	buildings	on	the	right	ended	after	several	feet	and opened	into	a	large	space	filled	with	vendors.	Multicolored	tents	were arranged	in	orderly	rows	and	delicious	scents	filled	the	air,	making	my mouth	water.	My	stomach	growled	and	I	absently	patted	it.

My	breakfast	had	been	filling,	but	I’d	walked	the	last	few	miles	to Autumnwick	and	now	I	was	hungry.	Considering	I	didn’t	have	any	money	for food,	I	was	hoping	the	school	would	provide	meals.	My	father	had	never	told me	about	his	training	days,	so	I	wasn’t	sure	what	awaited	me.

All	the	sights	and	smells	temporarily	distracted	my	mind	from	the	girl, who	I	found	to	be	quite	pretty.	Her	attitude,	on	the	other	hand,	made	me question	my	judgment.	I	watched	the	various	vendors	as	they	stood	under their	tents,	hawking	their	wares	and	trying	to	negotiate	prices	with	potential customers.	The	sun	seemed	to	grow	hotter	by	the	second	as	I	stood	there.	I wiped	the	back	of	my	hand	across	my	forehead	and	was	about	to	continue	to the	school	when	the	girl	walked	up	to	me.

“I’m	sorry,”	she	huffed.

“Don’t	worry	about	it,”	I	said.

“No,	really.	I	didn’t	mean	to	be	rude.	It’s	just	…”	she	trailed	off	and	looked down.	“My	whole	life,	people	have	tried	to	help	me	for	their	own	gain.	I’ve made	it	a	point	in	my	life	to	never	need	help	from	anyone.”

What	she	said	didn’t	make	any	sense.	She	was	a	low	born	like	me,	so	what would	anyone	have	to	gain	by	helping	her?	I	pushed	the	thought	away.

“Apology	accepted,”	I	said.	“I	didn’t	mean	to	offend	you	or	anything.	I thought	that	guard	was	being	a	little	forceful	for	his	own	good	and	thought	I could	help	diffuse	the	situation.”

“Thank	you,”	she	said.	She	paused	a	moment,	then	said,	“I’m	Maren.”

Maren.	That	was	different	…	but	beautiful.

“Nice	to	meet	you,	Maren,”	I	said.	“Are	you	really	going	to	the	school?”

“I	am,”	Maren	confirmed.	“I	want	to	be	a	Dragon	Guard.”

“So	do	I,”	I	said.	“My	father	was	one.”

“Was?”

“He	died,”	I	answered.	“In	a	big	battle	ten	years	ago.”

Maren’s	eyed	widened.	“Wait.	Your	father	was	Matthias	Baines?”

I	nodded.	“That’s	how	I	got	this,”	I	pointed	to	the	insignia	on	my	sleeve.

“Noble	by	Deed.”

She	stared	at	the	patch	intently	for	a	moment,	then	turned	toward	the market.	“Something	smells	good,”	she	said.	“Want	to	help	me	find	what	it is?”

I	wanted	to	say	yes,	but	because	I	didn’t	have	any	money,	I	was	forced	to decline.	Thankfully,	she	didn’t	ask	for	a	reason.	I	wouldn’t	have	lied	to	her	if she	had,	but	I	would	have	been	embarrassed.	My	father’s	heroics	may	have earned	my	family	a	noble	title,	but	that	title	didn’t	come	with	riches.

“I’ll	see	you	at	the	school,”	I	said.

Maren	shrugged	and	disappeared	into	the	crowded	marketplace.	A	droplet of	sweat	threatened	to	drip	into	my	eye	and	I	wiped	it	away,	then	continued toward	the	Citadel.

Girls	were	odd	creatures.





2



The	entrance	to	the	Citadel	was	much	more	heavily	guarded	than	the	city gates.	And	these	guards	weren’t	the	city	guard,	either.	They	were	Dragon Guards.	Their	armor	was	decorated	to	look	like	dragon	scales,	but	it	was versatile	and	practical	for	battle.	Behind	the	assemblage	of	guards	was	a	long wooden	table	that	had	weapons	scattered	haphazardly	on	its	surface.

As	I	drew	nearer,	there	was	a	 whooshing	sound	that	echoed	off	the	massive walls	and	made	the	items	on	the	table	clatter.	The	guards	seemed unperturbed	by	the	noise,	but	I	was	trying	to	figure	out	what	it	was	and where	it	was	coming	from.	Suddenly,	a	massive	blue	dragon	swooped	down from	the	sky	and	landed	in	the	courtyard.

I	held	my	breath	in	awe	as	I	stared	at	the	powerful	beast.	It	was	easily thirty	feet	long	from	its	nose	to	its	tail.	The	dragon’s	rider	slid	off	the	beast’s back	from	the	shoulder	and	landed	on	the	ground	gracefully.	I	snapped	my mouth	closed	and	blinked	several	times.	In	all	the	years	my	father	had	been	a dragoon,	I	never	had	the	chance	to	see	his	dragon.	Aside	from	when	the guards	traveled	the	kingdom,	dragons	were	to	be	kept	at	the	Citadel	under lock	and	key.	I	didn’t	know	why,	though.

Now	that	I	was	standing	before	a	dragon,	I	could	hardly	fathom	how	big	it was.	Its	shoulder	was	six	feet	above	the	ground	and	its	wingspan	was massive.	I	tried	to	eyeball	the	length,	but	it	had	to	be	almost	a	hundred	feet across.	My	focus	on	the	dragon	was	broken	as	the	guards	got	my	attention.

“Hey	there,”	one	of	them	called	out.	“Step	forward.”

I	did	as	he	asked	and	walked	closer,	but	my	gaze	remained	locked	on	the dragon.	An	older	man	approached	the	creature	and	took	its	reins,	then	led	it around	the	back	of	the	castle.	With	a	swish	of	its	tail,	the	dragon	disappeared behind	the	fortress	and	I	looked	at	the	guard	who’d	spoken.

“First	time,	huh?”	he	grinned.	“I	remember	my	first	time	seeing	a	dragon, too.	It’s	something	you	never	forget.”

“I	had	no	idea	they	were	so	large,”	I	said.

“Yeah,	they’re	impressive,	all	right.	That	one	was	full-grown,	but	blues aren’t	even	the	largest	dragons.”

“There	are	dragons	bigger	than	that	one?”	I	asked.

The	guard	nodded,	still	grinning.	“Anyway,	I	assume	you’re	here	to	sign up	for	admission?”

“Yes,”	I	replied.

“We’ve	got	a	big	crowd	this	year.	We	can’t	take	everyone,	but	the	best	of luck	to	you.”

“Thank	you.	Do	I	need	to	check	my	sword?”	I	asked,	eyeing	the	table behind	him.

“Yes.	We’ll	take	the	weapons	to	the	armory	and	catalog	them	to	the appropriate	students.	Once	you’re	accepted	as	an	apprentice,	or	rejected, you’ll	get	the	weapon	back.”

I	hesitantly	unstrapped	the	weapon	from	around	my	waist	and	offered	it to	the	guard.	He	noticed	my	uneasiness.

“Don’t	worry,	we’ll	keep	it	safe.”

“I	don’t	doubt	that,”	I	said.	“It’s	just	…	it	was	my	father’s.”

The	guard	pulled	the	blade	a	few	inches	from	the	scabbard	and	read	the inscription	on	the	blade,	then	looked	at	me	with	interest.

“You’re	Matthias’s	son?”

I	nodded	proudly.	“Did	you	know	my	father?”

“No,	but	I	saw	him	around	here	a	few	times.	He’s	a	hero,	you	know?”

“I	know.”

“I	know	your	surname,	but	what’s	your	given	name?”

“Eldwin,”	I	said.

The	guard	nodded	slowly	and	set	the	weapon	on	the	table	with	what seemed	like	reverence.	He	wrote	down	my	name	on	a	parchment,	along	with a	description	of	my	blade.	I	waited	expectantly	for	the	guard	to	say something	after	he	finished,	but	he	remained	silent.

“Do	I	just	go	in?”	I	asked.

The	guard	seemed	confused.	“Do	you	not	know	what	to	do?”	he	asked.

I	shook	my	head.

“Ah,	my	apologies.	You’ll	go	through	the	main	doors	there,”	he	pointed	an armored	hand	toward	the	front	of	the	Citadel.	“The	Administrators	will	sign you	in	and	tell	you	where	your	room	is.	The	ceremonies	don’t	start	for	a	few more	hours,	but	you	can	get	some	food	from	the	dining	hall	if	you’re	hungry.

Don’t	eat	too	much,	though.	The	stuff	they	serve	at	the	ceremony	is	top-notch.”

“Thank	you,”	I	said.	“It	was	nice	talking	to	you.”

I	joined	a	small	group	of	people	who	were	heading	for	the	Citadel’s entrance	and	listened	to	their	excited	conversations.	Two	of	them	were nobles	by	birth,	both	blond-headed.	They	were	talking	about	their	lavish trips	to	the	Citadel	and	the	disappearance	of	the	princess.	That	was	news	to me.	The	king’s	daughter	was	missing?	I	could	envision	legions	of	dragon riders	scouring	the	kingdom	for	her.

Three	low	borns	were	talking	about	all	the	amazing	things	they	had	seen in	the	market.	That	brought	Maren	to	mind	again	and	I	glanced	over	my shoulder	to	see	if	she	had	entered	the	courtyard	yet,	but	I	didn’t	see	her.	I stayed	at	the	back	of	the	group	and	kept	my	mangled	right	hand	as	concealed as	I	could.	A	short	stairway	led	to	the	large	oak	doors	that	towered	as	tall	as four	men	stacked	atop	one	another.

As	I	stepped	inside,	an	unmistakable	calmness	draped	over	everyone.	The excited	conversations	of	my	peers	died.	We	all	stood	in	the	doorway,	staring around	the	enormous	hall.	Marble	columns	were	spaced	every	ten	feet	and supported	the	domed	ceiling	above.	People	dressed	in	flowing	robes	were moving	in	every	direction,	their	steps	quiet	but	purposeful.	I	couldn’t	tell	the difference	between	their	ranks,	though	I	knew	there	were	a	few	different posts	within	the	school	hierarchy.

“Name?”

The	question	broke	the	silence	and	I	snapped	my	gaze	to	the	right	to	find a	tall,	elderly	man	standing	behind	a	lectern.	Atop	the	lectern	was	a	book	and quill.	His	robes	were	brown,	plain	and	unadorned.

“Speak	up,	boy,	I	can’t	hear	you.”

One	of	the	nobles	leaned	toward	the	old	man	and	repeated	his	name	so loud	it	echoed	off	the	walls.	His	name	was	Simon.	I	didn’t	catch	his	surname.

The	robed	man	dipped	his	quill	into	an	inkwell	and	then	wrote	the	name down,	then	told	Simon	what	room	he	would	be	staying	in.	The	process continued	through	all	my	peers	until	I	was	last.

“Name?”	the	old	man	asked.

“Eldwin	Baines,”	I	answered.

The	man	peered	down	at	me	and	smiled.	“Yes,	I	should	have	seen	the resemblance.	My	eyes	aren’t	what	they	used	to	be.”	He	scribbled	my	name down	in	his	book	and	then	said,	“You’ll	be	staying	in	the	North	Wing,	second floor,	third	room.”

“I’m	sorry,	but	where	is	that?”	I	asked.

“Don’t	worry	about	that	right	now,”	the	man	said.	“You’ll	meet	your Curate	at	the	ceremony	later	and	they	will	show	you	to	your	wing,	as	well	as explain	the	rules	of	the	school.”

I	nodded.	“The	soldier	outside	said	we	could	get	some	food	from	the dining	hall?”

“Yes,	that’s	correct.	The	dining	hall	is	in	the	South	Wing.”

A	robed	woman	was	walking	past	and	the	old	man	held	up	a	hand.	The woman	paused	and	the	man	gestured	toward	me.

“Surrel,	would	you	be	a	dear	and	show	Eldwin	here	to	the	dining	hall?”

“Of	course,	Provost,”	Surrel	replied.	She	looked	at	me	and	smiled.	“Follow me.”

I	fell	into	step	behind	the	woman	and	glanced	back	at	the	elder.	A	new group	had	entered	the	hall	and	he	began	taking	their	names.	He	seemed	nice.

And	apparently,	he	knew	my	father.	Surrel	led	me	down	long,	quiet	hallways

and	eventually	we	turned	a	corner	and	the	sweet	smell	of	freshly	baked bread	drifted	on	the	air.

“The	door	to	the	left	is	the	dining	hall,”	Surrel	said.	“You	can	stay	in	there until	the	ceremony	if	you	want.	Although	the	Provost	has	assigned	you	a room,	you	won’t	be	allowed	to	enter	it	until	your	Curate	has	outlined	the school’s	rules.”

“Do	I	have	to	stay	in	there?”	I	asked.

“No,	of	course	not.	Feel	free	to	wander	the	academy.	The	gardens	outside are	my	particular	favorite.”

“Thank	you	for	bringing	me	here,”	I	said.

“You’re	welcome.”

With	a	slight	bow	of	her	head,	Surrel	left	back	the	way	we’d	come	and	I entered	the	dining	hall.	Like	the	market,	a	swirl	of	different	scents	assailed my	senses	and	I	knew	it	would	be	hard	to	keep	from	eating	more	than	I should	with	the	ceremony	later.	I	joined	a	line	of	students	and	grabbed	a	tray from	one	of	the	stacks.

As	we	slowly	walked	forward,	a	long	wooden	bar	was	covered	with	various foods.	Freshly	baked	bread,	cheese	wheels,	steaming	mutton,	baked	turkey	…

it	was	more	food	in	one	place	than	I	had	ever	seen.	I	took	a	little	bit	of everything	and	by	the	time	I	reached	the	end	of	the	bar,	my	tray	was	full.

I	spotted	an	empty	table	and	sat	down,	then	glanced	around	at	the	other students.	Everyone	was	focused	on	eating	or	talking.	The	two	nobles	I	had seen	earlier	were	sitting	together.	If	they	were	like	other	nobles	I	had	met, they	probably	saw	themselves	as	better	than	everyone	else	and	wouldn’t	be caught	dead	talking	to	a	low	born	like	me.

Disappointed,	I	cast	a	final	glance	around	the	room	and	began	eating.	The flavors	that	hit	my	tongue	were	delicious.	I’d	always	loved	my	mother’s cooking,	but	this	school’s	food	put	her	to	shame.	The	spices	from	the	meats set	my	tongue	aflame,	but	thankfully	there	was	a	pitcher	of	water	at	every table.	I	poured	myself	some	and	took	a	long	drink,	swishing	the	cool	water

around	in	my	mouth	to	ease	the	burning.	It	wasn’t	overwhelming,	but	I	had never	grown	accustomed	to	spicy	food.	I	was	the	oddity	of	my	family.

By	the	time	I’d	cleared	half	the	tray,	I	slowly	became	aware	that	the general	sound	of	the	dining	hall	had	grown	quiet.	I	looked	around	and noticed	that	several	students	were	looking	in	my	direction.	I	turned	the other	way,	but	I	didn’t	see	anything	that	would	have	drawn	their	attention.

And	then	it	hit	me.

I	was	using	my	mangled	hand	to	eat	with.	The	other	students	were	staring at	 me.





3



“A	cripple	thinks	he’ll	be	able	to	ride	a	dragon?”

Despite	the	many	times	I’d	heard	similar	things	hurled	in	my	direction, the	words	stung	me	emotionally.	I	swallowed	the	food	in	my	mouth	and	took a	drink,	then	turned	to	see	who	said	it.	One	of	the	nobles,	the	one	named Simon,	was	smirking	at	me.

I	thought	about	just	ignoring	him,	but	for	some	reason	I	couldn’t	explain,	I decided	to	confront	him.

“What	was	that?”	I	asked.

Simon’s	smile	grew	larger	and	he	popped	a	grape	into	his	mouth.

“I	said,	a	cripple	thinks	he’ll	be	able	to	ride	a	dragon.”

“Who	said	I	was	a	cripple?”

“Look	at	your	hand,	low	born.	It’s	as	mangled	as	a	dragon’s	toy.	How would	you	hold	the	reigns?	And	what	about	wielding	a	blade?	How	would	you fight	on	the	back	of	a	dragon?”

The	hall	had	gone	silent	as	Simon	spoke,	and	all	eyes	were	on	me.

“I	can	wield	a	blade	just	fine,”	I	replied.	“And	I’ll	learn	to	hold	the	reigns.”

“Oh?	Prove	that	you	can	hold	a	sword,”	Simon	said.	“Challenge	me	to	a duel.”

Just	as	I	was	going	to	respond,	a	familiar	voice	spoke.

“Such	unbecoming	speech	from	a	noble.	And	even	worse,	from	someone who	thinks	they	are	worthy	of	something	simply	because	they	were	born with	a	different	shade	of	hair	color.”

It	was	Maren.	She	stood	a	few	feet	away	from	Simon,	arms	folded	across her	chest.	Her	black	hair	spiraled	down	her	shoulders.	Though	she	was	a	low born	like	me,	she	was	very	imposing	at	the	moment.

Simon	was	also	taken	aback	momentarily,	but	he	stood	up	and	glared	at her.

“How	dare	you	speak	to	me	like	that,	low	born!”

“I	should	say	the	same	to	you,	considering	Eldwin	here	is	a	Noble	by Deed.”

Simon	looked	at	me	and	I	flashed	the	insignia	on	my	shoulder	to	him.	His face	reddened	and	he	opened	his	mouth	to	say	something	but	stormed	out	of the	dining	hall	instead.	The	other	noble	got	up	and	left	as	well.	Maren	came over	to	my	table	and	sat	down.

“I	could	have	handled	it,”	I	said.	“You	know	you	just	made	an	enemy, right?”

Maren	shrugged.	“I’ve	been	surrounded	by	enemies	my	entire	life.	What’s one	more?”

There	she	went,	saying	something	that	didn’t	make	any	sense.	As	low borns,	we	were	the	lowest	in	society,	but	we	weren’t	surrounded	by	enemies.

I	ignored	her	comment.	My	throat	had	gone	dry	and	I	drank	some	more water.

“You	hungry?”	I	asked.

“No.	I	ate	in	the	market.	I	found	that	delicious	smell.	It	tasted	even better.”

“What	was	it?”

Maren	shrugged.	“Some	exotic	meat.	I’ve	never	heard	of	it.	How’s	the	food here?”

“Delicious,”	I	replied.	“Probably	the	best	food	I’ve	ever	had.”

“You	don’t	get	out	much,	do	you?”	Maren	laughed.

“What	do	you	mean?”

“Nothing.”	She	waved	a	hand	dismissively.	“There’s	a	few	hours	before	the ceremony.	Any	plans?”

“No?”	I	said,	then	took	a	bite	out	of	the	bread	on	my	tray.	It	was	light	and fluffy.

“Good.	You	can	come	with	me.”

I	finished	chewing	and	asked,	“Where?”

Maren	leaned	forward	and	lowered	her	voice	to	a	whisper.	“To	see	the dragons.”

“What?”	My	heart	fell	from	my	chest	into	my	stomach.	We	couldn’t	just	go wandering	into	the	dragon	stables!	Or	could	we?	I	washed	the	bread	down with	some	water	and	lowered	my	voice.	“Are	we	allowed	to	see	them?	We’re not	even	sworn	in	yet.”

The	smile	on	Maren’s	face	told	me	everything	I	needed	to	know.	She	was	a troublemaker.	I	leaned	back	in	my	chair	and	frowned	at	her.

“I	don’t	want	to	be	kicked	out	of	the	school.	I	 can’t	be.”

“You	won’t	get	kicked	out,”	Maren	chided.	“If	anything,	we’ll	be	forced	to clean	the	dishes	or	something	like	that.	As	you	said,	we’ve	not	been	sworn	in yet.	How	can	they	kick	us	out	if	we	aren’t	part	of	the	student	body	yet?”

I	knew	it	was	stupid,	but	her	logic	had	a	ring	to	it	that	I	couldn’t	deny.	I stared	at	her	in	silence,	wanting	to	tell	her	no,	planning	to	end	this	insanity immediately.	When	I	spoke,	I	found	myself	agreeing	to	go	with	her.	I pondered	how	that	happened	as	I	followed	her	down	the	long	hallways, passing	robed	students	and	teachers	alike.

“Have	you	been	here	before?”	I	asked.	She	walked	with	confidence	as	if she’d	walked	these	halls	a	hundred	times.

“No.	I’ve	seen	maps	of	the	school,	though.”

Maren	had	memorized	maps	of	the	place?	I	shook	my	head.	She	was	lying.

Maybe	she	was	some	third-	or	fourth-year	student	pretending	to	be	new	and only	wanted	to	get	me	into	trouble?	I	was	about	to	turn	back	when	we reached	a	small	wooden	door	that	was	relatively	hidden	by	the	shadows.	If she	hadn’t	stopped	at	it,	I	would	have	walked	right	past	without	noticing	it.

“Here,”	she	said	softly,	but	her	voice	carried	along	the	hallway.	“This	is	a door	used	by	the	servants.	It	leads	outside	near	the	entrance	to	the	stables.”

I	have	to	admit,	I	was	afraid.	The	risk	of	being	caught	and	kicked	out	of the	Citadel	was	something	I	didn’t	want	to	chance,	but	the	idea	that	dragons were	just	outside	that	door	was	too	tempting.

“Let’s	go,”	I	said.

Maren	nodded,	that	blasted	smile	on	her	face.	She	twisted	the	handle	and pushed	the	door	open.	A	wave	of	heat	washed	over	me.	Although	I	knew	it had	only	been	a	short	time	since	I’d	entered	the	Citadel,	it	had	felt	like	days had	passed.	The	sun	was	still	high	in	the	sky	and	it	beat	down	mercilessly.

Maren	led	the	way	and	I	followed	closely	behind	her.	About	fifty	paces	to	the left	was	the	large	opening	of	a	cave	that	led	below	ground,	a	massive	burrow beneath	the	Citadel	that	served	as	the	stables.

“There	are	two	guards	a	few	feet	inside,”	Maren	whispered	over	her shoulder.	“We’ll	need	to	sneak	past	them.”

Guards?	Oh,	great.	My	doubt	began	to	gnaw	at	me	again.	“Maybe	we shouldn’t	do	this,”	I	said.	“We	should	wait	until	it’s	officially	time	for	us	to see	them.”

Maren	turned	to	look	at	me.	“Are	you	a	chicken?”	she	asked.	“All	I’m hearing	is	you	balking.”

Despite	my	fear,	that	made	me	laugh	and	I	snorted.	Maren	winked	at	me and	turned	back	around.

“They’re	playing	dice,”	she	said.	“Don’t	drag	your	feet	and	we	should	be able	to	get	by	without	them	noticing.”

We	slipped	into	the	shade	of	the	cave’s	entrance	and	my	eyes	slowly adjusted	to	the	gloom.	Maren	was	right.	The	two	guards	were	sitting	cross-legged	on	the	ground	and	they	were	taking	turns	dumping	dice	out	of	a wooden	cup.

As	we	slinked	past	the	guards	and	continued	lower	underground,	the	air became	cooler.	It	was	pitch	black	for	fifty	feet	or	so,	then	everything	was illuminated	by	torches	that	lined	the	walls	on	either	side.	Spaced intermittently	on	either	side	were	smaller	caves,	though	they	were	still	vast in	size.

I	glanced	into	one	and	saw	giant	eyes	glittering	in	the	darkness.	I’m certain	my	heart	skipped	a	beat	and	I	was	distantly	aware	of	Maren	talking,

but	I	couldn’t	make	out	the	words.	The	massive	outline	of	a	dragon’s	head moved	toward	me	and	I	could	smell	something	acrid	in	the	air.	My	legs	went stiff.	I	was	frozen	in	place,	too	afraid	to	move.	The	dragon	drew	nearer	and inhaled	through	its	nostrils.

My	clothes	fluttered	from	the	pull	of	the	air	and	the	dragon	snorted	once, then	opened	its	maw.	I	was	going	to	die.	There	was	no	doubt	in	my	mind	as	I saw	the	razor-sharp	teeth	of	the	beast.	Then	the	dragon	made	a	choking sound	and	before	I	could	force	my	legs	to	move,	a	foul-smelling	mucus	flew forth	from	the	dragon’s	mouth	and	splattered	all	over	me.

Disbelief	alone	kept	me	from	vomiting.	The	dragon	backed	away	and disappeared	back	into	the	shadows	of	its	cave.	I	turned	to	look	at	Maren.	Her eyes	were	wide,	her	mouth	agape.	I	thought	for	sure	she	was	going	to	start laughing	at	me,	but	she	didn’t.

“What	is	this?”	I	asked	lowly,	horrified.

“I	think	it’s	dragon	phlegm,”	Maren	replied.

“I’m	trying	not	to	freak	out,”	I	said.

“At	least	it’s	not	acid.	Then	you’d	be	dead.”

Now	she	started	laughing.	I	did,	too.	I	had	forgotten	all	about	the	guards until	I	heard	their	boots	cracking	along	the	floor	as	their	silhouettes	came into	view.

“Come	on,	this	way!”	Maren	said.	She	grabbed	my	hand	and	pulled	me along	behind	her.	I	nearly	slipped	in	the	puddle	of	phlegm	on	the	floor,	but thankfully	I	kept	my	balance.	We	ran	further	into	the	cave,	going	deeper	into the	darkness	until	there	were	no	sputtering	torches	on	the	walls.	The blackness	was	absolute,	and	Maren	slowed	her	pace.	She	continued	to	hold my	hand	as	we	walked.	I	convinced	myself	it	was	only	because	she	didn’t want	to	lose	me	in	the	darkness.

“Where	are	we	going?”	I	whispered.

“Away	from	the	guards,”	Maren	replied.

I	rolled	my	eyes.	“Yeah,	I	know	that.	I	mean,	where	exactly	are	we	going?

The	exit	is	behind	us.”

“There	is	always	more	than	one	way	into	a	place,”	Maren	said.

“Considering	who	your	father	was,	I’m	surprised	you	don’t	know	more	about the	school.	Or	dragons.”

She	was	right.	My	father	had	never	really	talked	about	the	school	or	the things	he	did	as	a	dragoon	in	detail.	I	had	always	assumed	he	wanted	to	keep that	part	of	his	life	separate	from	the	rest	so	that	he	could	have	some semblance	of	normalcy.

“Stop,”	Maren	said.	“I	think	it’s	right	around	here.”

“What	is?”	“I	asked.

“The	secret	door,”	Maren	said.	“I	need	you	to	lift	me.”

“How	exactly?”

“Just	put	your	hands	together	so	I	can	use	them	as	a	step.”

I	bit	my	lower	lip.	She	clearly	had	forgotten	about	my	hand.	I	cleared	my throat.

“Yeah,	that’s	not	going	to	work.	I’ll	have	to	wrap	my	arms	around	your waist	and	lift	you	that	way.”

“That	should	work,”	Maren	replied.	“Just	don’t	get	any	ideas.”

I	snorted	in	reply	and	bent	down	slightly,	then	wrapped	my	arms	around her	midsection	and	lifted	her.

“Higher,”	she	said.	“I	can’t	reach	the	ceiling.”

Maren	wasn’t	heavy	but	trying	to	lift	her	higher	was	a	little	awkward.	I grunted	as	I	bounced	upward	and	readjusted	my	arms	a	little	lower.	Her thighs	pressed	against	my	head	and	despite	her	warning,	I	couldn’t	stop	the flow	of	inappropriate	thoughts	that	spun	around	in	my	mind.	She	made noises	as	she	stretched	to	reach	the	ceiling,	which	didn’t	help	at	all.

A	moment	later,	there	was	a	brief	screeching	sound.	Light	from	above filtered	down	into	the	cave	around	us	and	Maren	pulled	herself	up	through	a manhole.	She	offered	her	hand	to	me	and	I	jumped	a	few	times,	but	I	couldn’t reach	her.	She	disappeared	for	a	few	seconds,	then	reappeared	and	dropped

a	rope	down.

“Try	this,”	she	said.

I	grabbed	ahold	of	the	rope	and	climbed	up.	The	manhole	opened	into	a plain	stone	chamber.	I	laid	on	the	floor	beside	her,	most	of	the	dragon phlegm	still	wet	against	my	skin.	I	frowned	in	disgust.

“Where	are	we?”	I	asked.

Maren	giggled	in	response.	“The	women’s	bath	chamber.”





4



A	few	hours	later,	after	I	had	cleaned	the	dragon	phlegm	off	and	washed my	clothes,	I	sat	in	the	school’s	temple	with	the	other	hopefuls.	There	were roughly	a	hundred	of	us	and	the	building	was	a	cacophony	of	voices.

Maren	had	left	me	alone	when	we	escaped	the	women’s	bathing	room,	and thankfully	the	mens	hadn’t	been	too	far	away.	I	was	able	to	get	away	with	at least	some	shred	of	my	dignity.	To	her	credit,	Maren	hadn’t	said	anything about	my	dragon	encounter	other	than	she’d	never	heard	of	anything	like that	happening	before.

Neither	had	I,	but	what	did	either	one	of	us	know	about	dragons?	Not much.	I	looked	around	the	room	and	spotted	Maren	a	few	pews	over.	The temple’s	layout	was	simple.	Rows	of	pews	on	the	left	and	right,	divided	by	a walkway	down	the	middle,	and	an	upraised	dais	at	the	front.	Large	stained-glass	windows	behind	the	dais	portrayed	a	dragoon	riding	a	massive	red dragon.	I	knew	that	dragons	had	different	colors,	but	I	didn’t	know	how many	there	were.	I’d	seen	a	blue	one	earlier,	and	there	was	a	red	one	on	the glass.	My	thoughts	were	interrupted	when	the	school’s	master	called	for attention.

I	craned	my	neck	to	see	around	the	person	in	front	of	me	and	saw	the master	was	tall	and	thin.	His	age	was	indeterminate	to	me.	He	was	at	least	in his	sixties,	but	I	only	thought	that	because	his	hair	was	entirely	gray, including	the	short	beard	that	clothed	his	chin.	I	didn’t	think	I	would	be	able to	hear	him	from	where	I	was	sitting,	but	his	voice	boomed	across	the	entire room.

“Good	evening,	everyone.	Welcome	to	the	Citadel.	I	am	Master	Pevus, head	of	the	school.	This	is	our	largest	group	of	hopefuls	in	many	years.	Let	us hope	that	this	is	just	the	beginning	of	changing	times.”

Master	Pevus	shuffled	around	the	platform	and	looked	out	at	us,	peering

in	every	direction	before	nodding	to	himself.	That	was	odd.	Was	he	looking for	someone?

“As	many	of	you	probably	already	know,	we	do	not	accept	every	potential student,	even	if	they	pass	the	three	tests.	The	reason	for	this	is	not	for	you	to know.	Suffice	it	to	say	that	there	are	things	here	that	will	remain	a	mystery, no	matter	how	many	years	you	devote	to	your	studies.”

He	inhaled	a	deep	breath	and	tightened	his	grip	on	his	wooden	staff.	I tilted	my	head	curiously.	That	staff	hadn’t	been	there	before.	Or	had	it?	I blinked	and	looked	at	the	person	next	to	me,	but	if	they	were	aware	of	the same	thing,	they	didn’t	show	it.	I	turned	my	attention	back	to	Pevus.

“The	servants	are	setting	up	the	feast	and	we	will	all	move	to	the	dining hall	in	the	next	few	moments.	Please	wait	until	they	have	finished	laying everything	out	before	you	start	partaking	of	it.”

Master	Pevus	turned	his	head	and	cleared	his	throat,	then	continued speaking.	“I’ve	heard	the	whispered	rumors	going	around	about	the	new color	of	dragon	that	will	be	in	the	bonding	ceremony.”

At	this,	muted	conversations	sprung	to	life	around	me.	Master	Pevus raised	a	hand	for	silence.

“I	can	confirm	those	rumors	are	true.	We	typically	have	reds,	greens,	and blues,	but	this	year	we	will	see	a	few	black	dragons	in	the	mix.	It	has	been	a long	time	since	we’ve	had	black	dragons,	so	we	have	brought	in	a	teacher who	will	aid	in	your	training	should	a	black	dragon	choose	to	bond	with you.”

I	tried	to	picture	what	a	black	dragon	would	look	like,	but	considering	I’d only	seen	one	dragon,	my	imagination	fell	flat.	He	had	just	named	off	four colors,	though,	and	that	seemed	like	a	lot	to	me.	Of	course,	I	was	completely uneducated	about	dragons,	so	I	was	probably	wrong.	Maybe	there	were hundreds	of	different	colors.

“Those	of	you	familiar	with	the	Citadel	may	notice	some	recent	changes around	the	grounds.	To	alleviate	the	questions	directed	to	your	Curates,	just

refer	yourselves	back	to	my	original	statement	about	mysteries.	If	you	annoy your	Curate	with	unnecessary	questions,	you’ll	find	yourself	cleaning	dishes or	some	other	unsavory	task.”

I	made	a	mental	note	to	remember	that.	The	last	thing	I	wanted	to	do	was get	punished.	After	all,	I	had	to	live	up	to	my	father’s	respected	memory.

Master	Pevus	walked	slowly	down	the	center	aisle	and	glanced	up	and	down the	rows	of	pews.

“I	will	lead	the	way	to	the	dining	hall.	Beginning	with	the	last	row,	you shall	follow	behind	me.	Once	everyone	from	the	row	has	fallen	into	line,	the next	row	will	do	the	same.	Repeat	this	for	every	row.”

I	turned	around	to	watch	Master	Pevus	lead	the	way.	As	he	commanded, everyone	rose	from	the	pews	and	got	in	line,	following	him	to	the	dining	hall.

My	row	was	ahead	of	Maren’s,	so	I	didn’t	get	to	talk	with	her	much	as	we walked.	There	were	whispered	conversations	around	me.	I	eavesdropped	on a	few	of	them	and	learned	that	people	on	the	border	of	Osnen	were	reporting strange	things.

One	conversation,	between	two	young	girls,	revealed	that	rumors	were being	spread	about	the	return	of	the	someone	called	the	False	King.	I	didn’t know	who	that	was,	but	I	listened	intently	anyway.	Apparently,	everyone thought	he	had	died	years	ago.

The	rest	of	the	conversations	were	boring.	I	was	surprised	when	someone poked	me	in	the	back	and	I	glanced	over	my	shoulder	to	see	it	was	Maren.

“Where’d	you	come	from?”	I	asked.

“My	mother	and	the	authorities	are	still	trying	to	determine	that.”

She	said	it	with	such	a	straight	face	that	for	a	second,	I	actually	believed her.	Maren’s	face	broke	into	a	smile	and	she	giggled.	“I’m	kidding,	Eldwin.

Has	anyone	told	you	that	you’re	too	gullible?”

“You	would	be	the	first,	actually,”	I	replied.	“And	I’m	not	gullible.”

“Right.”	Maren	offered	me	an	exaggerated	wink.

We	reached	the	dining	hall	and	my	eyes	widened	as	we	entered.	The	room

looked	completely	different	from	what	it	had	just	a	few	hours	earlier.	The tables	had	been	rearranged	and	a	stage	had	been	erected	in	the	back	corner.

A	troop	of	performers	was	standing	off	to	the	side,	talking	among themselves.	Master	Pevus	stood	patiently	near	the	doors.	He	waited	until everyone	had	entered	before	speaking.

“You	have	all	been	assigned	a	Curate	based	on	your	housing	assignment.

Each	table	has	been	labeled	with	the	wing	and	floor	numbers.	Please	find your	tables	and	take	a	seat.”

That	caused	some	chaos	as	a	hundred	of	us	tried	to	navigate	between	the maze	of	tables	to	find	where	we	belonged.	A	lot	of	unintentional	pushing occurred,	but	eventually,	everyone	found	their	tables	and	sat	down.	I	looked around	at	the	others	at	my	table	and	was	surprised	to	find	Maren	and	Simon were	assigned	to	the	same	Curate	I	was.	Obviously,	I	was	happy	about	the first	and	disappointed	by	the	second.

Servants	rushed	to	finish	placing	food	on	the	tables	and	once	they	had cleared	the	room,	Master	Pevus	tapped	his	staff	on	the	floor	for	attention.

“Before	we	eat,	I’d	like	to	introduce	you	all	to	your	leaders.	Curates,	if	you would?”

A	group	of	robed	men	and	women	entered	the	dining	hall	and	separated, each	one	standing	next	to	a	table.	Our	Curate	was	a	man.	He	was	middle-aged,	with	short	brown	hair	and	a	clean-shaven	face.	His	eyes	were	green	and he	had	the	whitest	teeth	I	had	ever	seen.

“Greetings,”	he	said.	“I	am	Curate	Anesko.	Once	dinner	is	finished,	I’ll	lead you	to	your	rooms	and	explain	the	rules	of	the	school.	There	aren’t	many, but	they	are	important	and	in	place	for	good	reason.	Enjoy	the	meal	and	the ceremony,	for	tomorrow	begins	the	most	difficult	journey	you’ve	ever experienced.”

I	exchanged	looks	with	Maren.	She	shrugged	and	began	filling	her	plate.	I wasn’t	very	hungry,	so	I	picked	a	few	delicious	looking	items	and	ate sparingly.	I	knew	I	shouldn’t	have	eaten	as	much	as	I	did	earlier,	but	I

couldn’t	help	it.	I	was	parched	and	drank	several	cups	of	water.	Before	long,	I could	feel	my	bladder	starting	to	cry	out	at	me.	I	had	no	idea	where	I	could relieve	myself,	so	I	tried	to	ignore	my	body	by	bouncing	my	leg	beneath	the table.

While	I	was	looking	around	the	room	and	trying	not	to	piss	myself,	I noticed	a	red-faced	man	enter	the	dining	hall.	He	seemed	flustered	and approached	Master	Pevus.	They	shared	a	whispered	discussion	and	Master Pevus’s	face	seemed	troubled.	The	messenger	left	and	Master	Pevus	looked directly	at	me.	I	swallowed	hard.	Did	he	know	about	my	earlier	transgression with	the	dragon?

That	intensified	my	need	to	relieve	myself,	but	as	the	night	continued	on, he	never	said	anything	to	me.	Perhaps	it	was	just	my	wild	imagination.	The performers	entertained	us	with	feats	of	acrobatics,	juggling,	and	many	other acts.	Eventually,	I	found	myself	yawning	and	the	need	to	empty	my	bladder was	too	strong.	I	rose	from	the	table	and	approached	Curate	Anesko.

“Where	are	the	lavatories	from	here?”	I	asked.	My	body	was	starting	to get	hot	and	sweaty.

I	was	certain	he	could	see	my	discomfort.	Curate	Anesko	motioned	me	to follow	him	and	led	me	out	of	the	dining	hall.	We	went	to	the	left	and	at	the end	of	the	hall,	turned	right.	The	mens	bathing	room	that	I	had	used	earlier was	on	the	right.	I	thanked	the	Curate	and	quickly	relieved	myself,	breathing a	sigh	of	relief.

“Tell	your	friend	to	watch	her	back,”	a	quiet	voice	said.

I	turned	to	look,	startled,	but	nobody	was	there.





5



After	the	ceremony	was	over,	we	followed	Curate	Anesko	to	the	North Wing.	A	large	staircase	led	up	to	the	second	floor	and	we	all	stood	at	the bottom.	I’d	forgotten	which	room	the	Provost	had	assigned	me	to.	It	seemed everyone	else	had	as	well.

The	Curate	ended	up	having	to	tell	us	which	rooms	to	go	to.	I	had	assumed that	we	all	had	our	own	rooms,	and	was	sorely	disappointed	when	I	realized that	it	was	two	students	to	every	room.	And	of	course,	my	roommate	was Simon.

Before	we	were	allowed	to	turn	in	for	the	night,	Anesko	demanded	our undivided	attention.	We	lined	up	single	file,	facing	the	Curate.	He	clasped	his hands	behind	his	back	and	slowly	looked	down	the	line	of	students,	pausing	a few	seconds	as	he	reached	each	of	us.

“There	are	a	few	rules	that	you	need	to	observe.	It	is	of	the	utmost importance	that	you	do	not	break	these	rules,	or	your	time	here	will	be	 very short.”

Anesko’s	gaze	lingered	on	me	for	some	reason,	and	again	I	wondered	if Maren	and	I	had	been	seen	by	someone	earlier.	The	Curate	continued	his speech,	his	stern	gaze	looking	over	everyone	as	if	we	were	all	criminals.

“Firstly,	no	one	is	allowed	out	of	their	room	after	curfew,	which	is	the third	bell	after	dinner.	The	bell	rings	every	hour	on	the	hour	from	dawn	until curfew.	If	you	are	caught	gallivanting	around	the	grounds	other	than	to	use the	lavatory,	you	will	answer	to	me.	Is	that	understood?”

We	all	nodded	mutely.

“Good.	Secondly,	during	the	hours	outside	of	curfew,	you	are	allowed anywhere	on	the	grounds	except	the	dragon	stables.	Until	you	are	promoted to	the	rank	of	Adept,	you	might	be	lucky	enough	to	glimpse	a	dragon	in passing.	Dragons	are	powerful	and	cunning	creatures,	and	until	you’ve

mastered	the	skills	necessary	to	keep	from	falling	under	their	power,	you will	 not	get	within	fifty	feet	of	one.	Is	that	also	understood?”

I	swallowed	hard	and	nodded,	remembering	how	the	dragon	earlier	had only	been	a	few	feet	away.	Not	only	could	the	dragon	have	eaten	me,	but	it seemed	that	they	had	powers?	Were	they	able	to	use	magic	like	sorcerers?	I knew	that	a	dragoon	and	a	dragon	had	a	special	bond,	but	apart	from	that small	knowledge,	my	father	hadn’t	told	me	much	more.

“Thirdly,	and	perhaps	most	importantly,	you	must	not	share	the	details	of your	tests	with	each	other.	The	tests	you	will	go	through	are	different	for every	student	and	the	results	are	for	the	Curates	and	Master	Pevus	to determine	your	worthiness	of	bonding	with	a	dragon.	If	you	share	your	test details,	you	will	immediately	be	removed	from	the	Citadel	and	your	memory will	be	magically	wiped.	You	will	not	remember	this	place,	or	of	ever	being here.”

My	eyes	widened	in	surprise.	I	knew	less	about	magic	than	I	did	about dragons.	The	idea	that	a	single	person	had	the	power	to	remove	memories was	…	frightening,	at	the	least.	If	a	sorcerer	could	do	that,	what	else	were they	capable	of?

“There	are	other,	minor	rules,	but	these	three	are	inarguable.	You	will	not be	able	to	contest	them	if	you	are	guilty	of	breaking	them.	Do	you	all understand	the	rules	as	I	have	explained	them?”

There	was	more	nodding,	but	Anesko	didn’t	seem	satisfied.

“I	want	to	hear	your	understanding,”	he	said.

“Yes,	Curate,”	a	few	of	us	said.

“Everyone	at	once,”	he	demanded.

“Yes,	Curate,”	all	of	our	voices	rose	together.

“Excellent.	Normally,	testing	would	begin	in	the	morning,	but	Master Pevus	has	decided	to	push	it	back	a	day.	You	are	all	free	tomorrow	to	enjoy the	day	as	you	see	fit.	I	would	suggest	getting	to	know	your	surroundings	and learning	the	maze	of	hallways.	Meals	are	served	at	the	second	bell,	the

seventh	bell,	and	the	thirteenth	bell.	If	you	don’t	eat	at	the	designated	times, you	don’t	eat.”

This	was	supposed	to	be	a	school.	Why	were	the	rules	so	harsh?	Forcing students	to	go	hungry	seemed	wrong.	Granted,	going	hungry	was	something I	was	accustomed	to,	but	still.	None	of	the	nobles	probably	knew	what	going hungry	meant.	I	found	some	satisfaction	with	that	idea.	A	spoiled	noble	going hungry	might	teach	them	something.

“You	are	all	dismissed,”	Anesko	said,	then	turned	on	his	heel	and	left.

After	he	had	disappeared	from	view,	Maren	loudly	joked,	“That	guy	needs to	lighten	up.	Life	is	not	that	serious.”

I	grinned	at	her,	but	everyone	else	ignored	her	and	trekked	up	the staircase	that	led	to	our	rooms.	Maren	and	I	went	up	last.	She	kept	glancing around	and	I	had	a	feeling	she	was	up	to	something.

“What	are	you	doing	tomorrow?”	she	asked,	her	voice	much	lower	than before.

“Learning	my	way	around	the	school,”	I	replied.

“That	sounds	boring,”	she	huffed.	“Want	to	go	see	the	dragons	again?

Maybe	this	time	one	won’t	throw	up	on	you	and	we’ll	get	to	touch	one.”

I	stopped	mid-step	and	looked	at	her	incredulously.	“Were	you	not listening	to	the	Curate,	or	are	you	itching	for	trouble?	We’re	not	allowed	to go	into	the	stables.”

“Rules	were	made	to	be	broken,	Eldwin.”

“Trust	me,”	I	said,	raising	my	mangled	hand	for	her	to	see.	“Rules	are	in place	for	good	reason.”

Maren	stared	at	my	hand	in	silence	for	a	moment,	then	opened	her	mouth as	if	she	was	going	to	say	something.	Instead,	she	pursed	her	lips	and	nodded once,	then	continued	up	the	stairs.	Finally.	Maybe	she	could	learn	to	follow the	rules	after	all.

I	stepped	into	my	room,	the	third	door	from	the	staircase.	Simon	was already	inside.	He’d	had	his	belongings	delivered	by	a	servant,	and	his	stuff

was	neatly	arranged	on	one	side	of	the	room.	I	only	had	the	clothes	I	was wearing.	It	didn’t	bother	me	too	much.	I	tried	to	look	at	the	bright	side.	After all,	I	didn’t	have	to	lug	around	a	bunch	of	things.

I	sat	on	my	bed	and	slipped	my	worn	boots	off,	then	laid	back	and	stared up	at	the	ceiling.	From	the	corner	of	my	eye,	I	could	see	that	Simon	was blatantly	ignoring	me.	I	tried	to	hide	my	smile,	just	in	case	he	was	looking	my way.	Maren	had	a	fiery,	rebellious	personality.	That	wouldn’t	be	a	bad	thing if	she	were	a	noble,	but	low	borns	couldn’t	get	away	with	acting	rash	like that.

Still,	I	found	her	alluring	like	a	poisonous	flower.	She	was	nice	to	look	at, but	if	you	got	too	close,	she	would	infect	you.	Perhaps	that	wouldn’t	be	so bad.	So	long	as	she	didn’t	get	me	kicked	out	of	the	Citadel,	I	could	deal	with her	intrepid	nature.

“Hey,”	Simon	said	brusquely.

“I	know,	‘Tell	my	friend	to	watch	her	back.’	I	got	your	warning,	Simon.”

“What	are	you	blabbering	on	about?”	he	asked.

I	sat	up	and	looked	at	him.	“In	the	lavatory.	I	heard	your	veiled	threat about	Maren.”

Simon	looked	genuinely	confused.	“I	don’t	know	who	you	heard,	but	it wasn’t	me.”	He	shook	his	head	and	muttered	something	under	his	breath.

“Right.	What	did	you	want	to	say,	then?”	I	asked.

“I	was	going	to	say	that	I	think	it	would	be	best	if	you	left	now	while	you have	a	choice	in	the	matter.	That	hand	isn’t	going	to	do	you	any	favors around	here.”

“How	selfless	of	you,”	I	replied,	then	laid	back	down.

“I’m	trying	to	help	you	keep	your	honor	intact,”	Simon	said.	“You	may	not have	been	born	a	noble,	but	your	father’s	Deed	shouldn’t	be	disparaged because	you’re	too	stubborn	to	give	up.”

“I	can’t	give	up,”	I	said.	“I	have	nothing	without	this	school.”

There	was	a	long	moment	of	silence.	I	looked	over	at	Simon	to	see	why	he

hadn’t	said	anything.	He	was	on	his	bed,	his	back	to	me.	I	rolled	my	eyes.

How	dare	he	try	to	tell	me	what	my	father’s	honor	was	worth?	I	knew	more than	anyone,	especially	some	spoiled	noble	brat.	I	was	still	fuming	when	I heard	Simon	snoring.	It	wasn’t	too	loud,	but	I	was	having	trouble	falling asleep	and	the	sound	was	annoying.

I	rolled	off	the	bed	and	left	the	room,	then	headed	down	the	stairs	and navigated	my	way	to	the	lavatory.	The	stone	floor	was	cold	on	my	feet,	but	it felt	good.	I	splashed	some	water	from	a	bucket	onto	my	face	and	stared	into one	of	the	mirrors	that	hung	on	the	wall.

My	eyes	were	red.	I	was	physically	exhausted,	but	I	couldn’t	sleep.	My mind	was	running	in	every	direction.	I	headed	back	to	the	North	Wing intending	to	try	and	force	myself	to	sleep,	but	I	saw	a	shadow	dart	down	the hall	to	the	left.	I	knew	I	should	have	just	minded	my	own	business,	but	my curiosity	was	piqued,	and	I	slowly	followed	after	the	shadow.

As	I	turned	the	corner,	I	recognized	Maren.	She	was	surprisingly	quiet	for how	fast	she	was	moving.

“Maren!”	I	whispered	loudly.

She	must	not	have	heard	me,	for	she	disappeared	into	the	shadows.	I almost	went	after	her,	but	I	didn’t	want	to	risk	being	caught	by	the	Curate.	I made	it	back	to	my	room	and	climbed	into	bed,	then	laid	there	and	tried	to clear	my	mind.

When	the	sun	rose	and	Simon	got	up,	I	was	still	awake.	The	day	was	going to	be	a	rough	one.





6



I	managed	to	get	down	to	the	dining	hall	in	time	for	breakfast.

There	were	small	mountains	of	scrambled	eggs,	buttered	toast,	and	thick sausages	piled	on	the	serving	table.	I	wasn’t	as	hungry	as	I	expected	to	be,	so I	ate	a	minimal	amount	and	listened	to	the	conversations	around	me.	A	few people	talked	about	how	they	thought	the	Curate	was	rude,	and	others	talked about	wanting	to	see	the	dragons.

Maren	was	unsurprisingly	absent.	I	figured	she	had	probably	snuck	down to	see	the	dragons	already.	She	was	going	to	get	caught,	I	was	sure	of	it.	I’d	be sad	to	see	her	go,	but	it	would	be	her	fault	for	breaking	the	rules.	I	wondered where	she	had	gone	last	night,	but	there	was	no	telling.	She	was	a	free	spirit.

I	decided	to	check	out	the	market	in	Autumnwick	since	I	doubted	that	we would	get	many	days	to	ourselves.	I	didn’t	have	any	money	to	spend,	but	I just	wanted	to	get	some	fresh	air.	It	was	surprising	that	I	wasn’t	falling	asleep standing	up	since	I	hadn’t	slept	at	all	the	night	before.

As	I	walked	down	the	various	aisles	of	stalls,	I	saw	wares	of	all	kinds.

Swords	and	armor,	meats	and	pastries,	and	many	things	I	didn’t	recognize.

Since	it	was	still	early	in	the	morning,	the	crowds	were	light.	I	stopped	at	a stall	that	had	daggers	and	admired	the	craftsmanship.

One,	in	particular,	caught	my	eye.	The	hilt	was	fashioned	in	the	design	of	a dragon’s	head,	and	the	blade	was	curved	like	a	dragon	tooth.	It	would	be	a good	match	for	my	sword,	but	I	didn’t	bother	asking	the	vendor	how	much	it cost.	Someone	came	up	beside	me	and	I	moved	aside	to	give	them	space.

“Eldwin.”	It	was	Simon’s	voice.

I	looked	over,	surprised	to	find	him	in	the	market.	Nobles	usually	sent servants	out	for	them,	but	considering	he	was	in	the	school	now,	I	supposed Simon	would	have	to	get	used	to	doing	things	for	himself.

“Simon,”	I	replied	tersely.

“I	wanted	to	apologize	for	what	I	said	last	night,”	he	said.

Confusion	assaulted	my	mind.	Simon	wanted	to	apologize?	I	blinked	a	few times,	my	mind	trying	to	wrap	itself	around	his	words.

“I	could	have	been	less	abrasive	with	what	I	said.	It’s	just	hard	to	hear everyone	talking	badly	about	you	because	of	your	hand.	Your	father	was	a hero,	and	even	though	he	was	low	born,	it’s	not	right.	I	was	just	trying	to help.”

“Well,	you	were	also	talking	about	my	hand.”

“I	know.	I’m	sorry.”

Simon	was	confusing	me.	He	was	a	noble,	and	nobles	were	all	the	same.

Selfish,	self-absorbed,	and	high	maintenance.	Yet	here	he	was	apologizing.	I would	never	have	imagined	a	noble	apologizing	in	general,	but	especially	not to	me.

“Don’t	worry	about	it,”	I	said.	“I’m	used	to	it,	trust	me.”

“I	want	to	make	it	up	to	you,”	Simon	said.

“You	don’t	have	to,”	I	said.

“I	want	to,”	he	replied.	“Come	with	me.”

Simon	walked	away	before	I	could	argue.	I	watched	him	and	debated	on whether	or	not	to	follow	him.	The	internal	debate	lasted	a	few	seconds,	then I	sighed	and	hurried	to	catch	up	to	him.	I	wasn’t	too	proud.

“Really,”	I	said.	“You	don’t	have	to	do	anything.”

“It’s	the	least	I	can	do.”

Simon	turned	to	the	left,	away	from	the	market	and	down	an	alley.	I wasn’t	sure	where	he	was	leading	me,	but	I	continued	to	follow	him.	Another left	took	us	behind	a	building.	There	was	a	group	of	guards	leaning	against the	building’s	wall.	A	feeling	of	uneasiness	swept	over	me	as	I	saw	the	men were	city	guards.

I	started	to	backstep,	but	the	clink	of	chainmail	alerted	me	to	more	guards closing	in	from	behind.	I	instinctively	reached	for	my	sword	but	remembered it	was	in	the	Citadel’s	armory.	My	heart	started	hammering	in	my	chest.

“Well	done,	Simon,”	one	of	the	guards	said.	“I	was	starting	to	think	he	had left	the	city	before	I	could	give	him	a	proper	introduction	to	Autumnwick.”

The	guard	who	spoke	stepped	forward	and	I	recognized	him	from	the other	day.	He	was	the	one	who	had	accosted	Maren	before	I	intervened.	I swallowed	hard,	knowing	that	whatever	he	had	in	store	for	me,	it	couldn’t	be good.

“What’s	your	name?”	the	guard	asked.

I	remained	silent,	but	Simon	spoke	up.

“His	name	is	Eldwin.	His	father	was	Matthias	Baines.”

The	guard	tilted	his	head	slightly.	“The	war	hero?”	he	asked.

“The	same,”	Simon	answered.

“It’s	a	shame	he	raised	a	son	who	doesn’t	know	how	to	mind	his	own business.	Either	way,	I’m	going	to	enjoy	teaching	him	a	lesson.”	He	motioned with	his	hand	and	the	guards	behind	me	grabbed	my	arms	roughly,	holding me	in	place.

“You	see,	Eldwin,	here	in	Autumnwick,	we	city	guards	don’t	care	for dragoons.	Granted,	you	aren’t	one	yet,	but	you’re	trying	to	earn	your	way	in.

Do	you	know	why	we	don’t	like	dragoons?”

I	stared	back	at	him,	trying	to	make	myself	look	defiant.	If	it	worked,	the guard	didn’t	bother	to	acknowledge	it.

“It’s	because	they	let	people	like	you	in.	Crippled,	low	born,	damaged people.	How	do	they	expect	people	like	you	to	defend	the	kingdom?”	He shook	his	head.	“Look	at	his	blasted	hand!	He	can’t	even	properly	hold	a sword.”

“I	can	wield	a	blade,”	I	finally	spoke.

“Ah,	so	now	he	speaks.	I	doubt	that	you	have	the	strength	in	that	hand	to hold	a	real	man’s	sword.”

“My	father’s	blade	is	more	of	a	real	man’s	sword	than	you’ve	ever	seen.”

Anger	was	beginning	to	simmer	within	me.

“Is	that	right?”	The	guard	stepped	closer,	drawing	only	a	few	inches	from

me.	I	could	smell	the	leather	of	his	armor,	along	with	the	scent	of	his	body odor.	I	scrunched	my	nose.	He	needed	to	take	a	bath.

“Jon,	you	said	you	were	only	going	to	scare	him	a	bit,”	Simon	said.	I looked	at	him,	but	he	didn’t	meet	my	gaze.

“I	am,”	Jon	replied.	“But	he	doesn’t	seem	scared	yet.”

Pain	lanced	through	my	stomach	as	Jon	drove	his	fist	into	me.	I	would have	crumbled	to	my	knees	if	his	cronies	wouldn’t	have	been	holding	my arms.	I	sucked	in	air	between	coughs.	The	realization	that	Simon	had	tricked me	only	made	me	angrier,	but	I	was	outnumbered	and	overpowered.

“You’re	pathetic,”	Jon	spat.	“You’ll	always	live	in	your	father’s	shadow.	At least	he’s	not	alive	to	see	how	wretched	you	are.”

Jon	punched	me	again.	His	guards	released	my	arms	and	I	fell	to	the ground.	Dust	rose	and	got	into	my	mouth.	It	made	my	teeth	gritty	and	I wanted	to	spit	it	out,	but	it	was	all	I	could	do	to	breathe.

“Come	on,	Jon.	Just	leave	him	here.”	It	was	Simon	again.	Maybe	he	felt	bad and	that	was	why	he	was	trying	to	intervene.	It	didn’t	matter.	He’d	betrayed me.	Dragoons	were	supposed	to	defend	the	kingdom	and	protect	its	people, yet	Simon	was	no	better	than	these	petty	guards.

“That’s	a	good	idea,	Simon.	I	will	leave	him	here.	That	way,	no	one	will find	his	body.”

I	heard	ringing	steel	and	looked	up	to	see	Jon	had	drawn	his	sword.	Terror forced	my	limbs	to	move,	and	I	struggled	to	my	feet.	The	guards	behind	me shoved	me	back	to	the	ground	and	my	knees	struck	the	dirt	painfully.

“What	are	you	doing?”	Simon	demanded.	“You	can’t	murder	someone!”

“I	can	do	as	I	see	fit,”	Jon	rebuked.

“I	won’t	let	you.”

“Watch	yourself,	Simon.	You	may	be	a	noble,	but	my	father	outranks yours.”

I	prepared	myself	to	get	up	and	make	a	run	for	it	as	Jon	lifted	his	sword.

Simon	cried	out	in	protest	and	grabbed	ahold	of	Jon’s	arm	as	Jon	started	to

swing,	which	threw	his	motion	off.	The	blade	swung	narrowly	past	my	face.	I crawled	backward	and	bumped	into	the	legs	of	the	guards	behind	me.

Simon	and	Jon	struggled	against	one	another.	I	started	to	get	to	my	feet, but	one	of	the	guards	struck	me	in	the	head.	Agony	screamed	throughout	my body.	I	gasped	and	my	vision	threatened	to	go	black.	I	fought	against unconsciousness,	but	it	was	a	losing	battle.

A	bright	flash	of	light	and	a	sound	like	thunder	echoed	against	the buildings	around	us.	I	was	already	dazed,	and	the	light	blinded	me,	stabbing into	my	eyes	and	bursting	into	the	back	of	my	skull	like	a	thousand	tiny	hot shards	of	glass.

I	screamed,	unable	to	bear	the	pain,	but	I	couldn’t	hear	myself	over	the roaring	thunder.	It	seemed	like	the	world	was	ending,	ending	in	burning light	and	rumbling	noise.	I	could	see	faint	outlines	of	the	guards	rushing	past me.	Just	before	the	darkness	of	oblivion	took	me	into	its	embrace,	I	thought	I saw	a	face	contorted	with	rage.

Maren’s	face.





7



When	I	awoke,	I	had	no	idea	where	I	was.

My	mind	seemed	foggy	as	if	it	was	stuffed	with	cotton.	I	was	lying	on	my back,	staring	up	at	a	white	ceiling.	I	was	parched,	and	my	lips	were	chapped.

Running	my	dry	tongue	over	them	was	like	using	sandstone	to	moisturize.

“Water,”	I	rasped	as	I	tried	to	sit	up.

A	wave	of	nausea	washed	over	me	and	I	had	to	lie	back	down.	A	dull	pain throbbed	in	my	stomach,	and	I	vaguely	remembered	Jon	hitting	me.	It	felt like	an	eternity	before	the	nausea	passed	and	I	was	able	to	force	myself	into	a sitting	position.

There	were	two	people	in	the	room	with	me.	I	immediately	recognized Curate	Anesko,	but	I	didn’t	know	the	other	person.	It	was	a	woman,	and instead	of	gray	or	brown	robes,	she	wore	white	ones.	She	walked	over	to	me carrying	a	wooden	pitcher	and	cup.	She	poured	some	water	into	the	cup	and handed	it	to	me.	I	started	to	take	a	sip	but	noticed	tiny	leaves	floating	in	the water.	I	looked	at	the	woman	curiously.

“It’ll	help	with	the	pain,”	she	said.

I	was	too	thirsty	to	care	whether	that	was	true	or	not.	I	drank	deeply, downing	the	entire	cup	as	if	I	hadn’t	had	water	in	weeks.

“Where	am	I?”	I	choked	out	as	I	handed	the	empty	cup	to	her.	She sprinkled	some	more	leaves	into	the	cup	and	refilled	it.

“The	infirmary,”	she	replied.	“How	are	you	feeling?”

“Rough,”	I	said.	“I’ve	felt	worse,	though.”	I	held	my	hand	up	for	emphasis.

“How	did	I	get	here?”	I	asked.

“I’ll	let	Curate	Anesko	answer	that,”	she	said.	She	glanced	back	at	him	and he	joined	us.

“What	were	you	doing	in	the	market?”	Anesko	asked.	His	tone	wasn’t filled	with	tenderness	like	the	healer.

“I	was	browsing	the	vendors.”

“How	did	you	end	up	behind	the	money	changers	building?”

I	didn’t	know	what	a	money	changer	was,	but	I	assumed	he	meant	the building	Simon	had	led	me	behind.	I	opened	my	mouth	to	answer	and paused.	Simon	had	betrayed	me,	true,	but	he	also	tried	to	defend	me	when	he realized	Jon	was	going	to	kill	me.	I	considered	whether	I	owed	him	any favors,	and	decided	that	his	actions	had	canceled	each	other	out.	I	didn’t	owe him	anything.

“Simon	tricked	me	into	going	behind	the	building	with	a	promise	of	giving me	something.	The	only	thing	back	there	was	the	city	guards.	They	tried	to kill	me.”

Anesko	exchanged	glances	with	the	healer.

“Drink	this,”	the	woman	said,	then	she	and	Anesko	stepped	away	and	held a	whispered	conversation.

I	couldn’t	hear	what	they	were	saying.	A	low	ringing	sound	had	taken	up residence	in	my	ears.	I	sipped	the	water	and	looked	around	the	infirmary.

The	walls	were	white	like	the	ceiling,	but	the	floor	was	the	same	gray	stone as	the	rest	of	the	Citadel.	Rows	of	beds	were	lined	in	orderly	rows,	all	of	them empty	except	one.	I	hadn’t	noticed	before,	but	someone	was	lying	in	the	bed with	a	bandage	wrapped	around	their	torso.	A	large	vibrant	red	stained	the sterile	fabric.

Blood.	Lots	of	it.

Anesko	and	the	healer	came	back	over	and	I	turned	my	attention	to	them.

“I’m	going	to	escort	you	to	your	room,”	Anesko	said.	“You	can	rest	there for	the	remainder	of	the	day.	Tomorrow	begins	the	first	test,	and unfortunately,	if	you	don’t	test	tomorrow,	you	don’t	test	at	all.”

“He	needs	at	least	three	more	days	to	rest,”	the	healer	interjected.

“I	don’t	make	the	rules,	Anessa.	I	enforce	them.”

“It’s	fine,”	I	said.	“I’m	feeling	a	little	rough,	but	I	can	take	the	test.”

“Are	you	sure?”	Anessa	asked,	her	face	etched	with	worry.

“I	have	to.	This	is	my	only	chance.”	I	couldn’t	be	sure,	but	I	thought	I	saw a	bit	of	a	smirk	on	Anesko’s	lips.	Was	he	proud	of	me,	or	was	he	trying	not	to laugh	at	my	weakness?	I	supposed	it	didn’t	matter	either	way.

“If	anything	happens	to	him,	I	will	not	be	pleased,”	Anessa	warned	the Curate.	Anesko	rolled	his	eyes	and	offered	me	his	hand.	I	accepted	it	and	slid off	the	bed.	Without	another	word,	the	Curate	led	me	through	the	infirmary toward	the	door.	As	we	passed	by	the	bed	with	the	bloodied	person,	I	saw that	it	was	Simon.	My	eyes	widened	in	surprise.

“What	happened	to	Simon?”	I	asked.

“He	was	stabbed,”	Anesko	replied.

“Stabbed?”	I	remembered	his	scuffle	with	Jon.	The	guard	must	have gained	the	upper	hand.	I	clenched	my	jaw	in	anger,	which	only	added	to	my headache.	“Will	he	be	all	right?”

“Don’t	worry	about	him.	You	have	enough	of	your	own	problems.”

I	wasn’t	sure	what	Anesko	meant	by	that,	and	I	didn’t	bother	asking.	We walked	through	the	hallways	in	silence.	Anesko	kept	his	pace	slow	enough that	I	was	able	to	keep	up.	The	pain	in	my	stomach	was	still	there,	but	it	had diminished	enough	that	it	was	more	an	annoyance	than	anything	else.

Once	we	reached	the	staircase	that	led	up	to	my	floor,	Anesko	stopped.	He turned	to	face	me	and	I	saw	that	the	hardness	in	his	eyes	had	lessened.

“I	don’t	know	why	Simon	and	the	city	guard	have	it	out	for	you,	but	I	can only	assume	it	has	something	to	do	with	who	your	father	is.	Perhaps	they think	that	beating	on	you	will	gain	them	some	sort	of	reputation.	People	are stupid	when	they	are	young,	and	today’s	events	only	solidify	that	for	me.”

Anesko	sighed	and	rubbed	his	eyes	with	the	tips	of	his	fingers.	He	seemed stressed.	There	had	to	be	more	going	on	than	just	my	situation.	I	was involved	and	I	wasn’t	as	strained	as	he	was.

“Someone	used	magic	in	that	fight,”	he	added.	“It	was	a	powerful	spell, too.	I	don’t	think	the	guards	did	it.	They	aren’t	trained	in	the	ways	that students	of	the	Citadel	are.	Using	magic	against	another	person	is	illegal.	I

have	to	ask.	Did	you	use	magic	against	those	guards?”

“No,”	I	answered.	“I	didn’t	even	know	that	what	happened	was	the	result of	magic.	I	was	barely	conscious	when	I	got	blinded.”

“Good.	Do	you	know	who	cast	the	spell?”

“No,	Curate.	I	didn’t	see	anyone	other	than	the	guards.	And	Simon.”	The memory	of	Maren’s	angry	face	flashed	in	my	mind’s	eye.	If	that	was	real,	I think	I	did	know	who	cast	the	spell,	but	I	would	never	tell	anyone.

Anesko	frowned.	“We	will	have	to	find	the	person	who	did.	Someone	with magic	that	powerful	must	be	trained	to	properly	use	it,	or	they	risk	the	lives of	everyone	around	them.”

I	nodded,	not	sure	what	to	say.	I	just	wanted	to	go	back	to	sleep.	I	was	sure the	Curate	could	see	my	exhaustion.

“Listen	to	me,	Eldiwn.	Listen	well.	The	tests	are	not	easy.	They	will	push you	in	ways	you’ve	never	dreamed	of.	It	is	no	small	feat	to	pass	the	tests,	but also	know	that	passing	the	tests	is	only	scratching	the	surface	of	what	being a	dragoon	holds.	Did	your	father	ever	talk	about	his	time	here?”

I	shook	my	head.	“No,	Curate.”

“There	is	a	good	reason	for	that,	trust	me.	Before	the	testing	is	done,	you will	wish	that	you	were	dead.	I	know	I	did.”

“Thank	you	for	letting	me	know,”	I	said.

Anesko	stared	at	me,	his	eyes	probing	my	soul,	looking	for	any	hesitation or	weakness.	I	was	determined	to	pass	the	tests.	Being	a	dragoon	was	all there	was	for	me.	If	I	didn’t	pass	and	bond	with	a	dragon,	I	had	no	idea	what	I would	do,	or	where	I	would	go.	The	lands	my	father’s	Deed	had	earned	were dead	like	my	parents.	No	crops	grew	there	and	water	was	non-existent.	This was	all	I	had.

The	Curate	placed	a	hand	on	my	shoulder.	“Get	some	rest,”	he	said.

“You’re	going	to	need	it.”

And	then	he	left.	I	stood	there	for	a	moment,	running	his	words	through my	mind,	over	and	over.	I	made	my	way	up	the	stairs	slowly.	Every	muscle	in

my	body	was	sore.	By	the	time	I	reached	the	top,	I	was	tempted	to	get	on	my knees	and	crawl	the	rest	of	the	way.	Yet	somehow,	I	had	enough	strength	to make	it	to	my	room	and	into	bed.	I	fell	asleep	almost	immediately.

I	awoke	to	the	sound	of	the	Citadel’s	bell	ringing	and	quickly	sat	up.	What bell	was	it?	What	 day	was	it?	I	rolled	out	of	bed	and	was	happy	to	find	that other	than	a	dull	soreness	in	my	stomach,	I	felt	completely	rested.	At	the	foot of	my	bed	was	a	folded	set	of	gray	robes.	I	figured	I	was	supposed	to	wear them,	so	I	put	them	on	over	my	clothes	and	headed	down	to	the	dining	hall.

It	was	empty	aside	from	a	few	servants	doing	some	cleaning.

“What	bell	is	it?”	I	asked	one	of	them.

“Fifth,”	the	man	answered.

I	thanked	him	and	then	sprinted	for	the	temple,	hoping	I	wasn’t	too	late.





8



I	rushed	into	the	temple.

To	my	relief,	everyone	was	seated	and	appeared	to	be	waiting	for	Master Pevus.	I	slipped	into	the	last	pew,	trying	to	be	as	quiet	as	possible.	Nobody appeared	to	notice	my	tardiness,	or	if	they	did,	they	didn’t	care.

I	spotted	Maren	sitting	in	one	of	the	middle	rows.	I	thought	about	how	I had	seen	her	face	during	my	attack.	There	had	been	so	much	rage	in	her eyes.	Thinking	about	it	now	gave	me	a	chill.	Was	she	the	one	who	had	cast the	powerful	spell	Curate	Anesko	mentioned?	I	didn’t	know.

Wait.

I	considered	the	many	odd	statements	she’d	said.	Things	about	people wanting	to	help	her	for	personal	gain.	What	if	she	was	a	sorcerer?	That thought	gave	me	pause.	The	only	sorcerer	I	had	ever	met	was	an	old	hedge witch	when	I	was	eight.	I’d	been	violently	ill	and	my	mother	had	tried	every remedy	she	could	think	of,	but	nothing	worked.

In	desperation,	she’d	taken	me	to	see	Yizell.	The	old	witch	had	looked ancient	and	moved	slow,	but	she	was	kind	and	offered	a	concoction	that ended	my	sickness.	Given	that	it	was	my	only	interaction	with	a	magic	user, it	was	hard	to	fathom	the	anger	one	of	them	could	possess.	And	yet,	if	it	was Maren	who	had	cast	the	spell	…	she	had	done	it	to	save	me.

Master	Pevus	strode	into	the	room	then,	his	robes	fluttering	around	him.

He	stood	on	the	raised	dais	and	cleared	his	throat.	I	squinted	at	him.	He looked	like	he	had	aged	several	years	since	I	had	seen	him	the	other	night.

“Attention!	Attention,	students!”

Once	the	multitude	of	voices	quieted,	Master	Pevus	continued.

“Today	we	will	begin	Compassion,	the	first	of	three	tests.	Only	one	student will	be	tested	at	a	time.	As	such,	we	will	break	for	meals.	Given	that	this	is such	a	large	group,	I’m	hoping	that	we	will	be	finished	before	the	curfew	bell,

but	I	am	not	completely	in	control	of	the	test.

“The	magic	of	the	temple	is	the	true	master	here,	and	it	will	dictate	the amount	of	time	you	will	spend	in	the	test.	I	believe	the	longest	any	potential student	has	spent	been	in	the	test	was	three	hours,	but	that	is	certainly	not the	norm.”

Master	Pevus	motioned	at	a	door	to	his	right.

“This	door	will	lead	you	into	the	chamber	where	you	will	be	tested.	The Curates	and	I	will	view	the	testing,	but	we	will	not	interfere	unless	it	is deemed	an	emergency.”

Someone	in	the	front	raised	their	hand.

“Yes?”

“Is	the	test	dangerous?”	the	person	asked.

“Physically,	no.	At	least,	not	that	I’ve	ever	witnessed.	Mentally,	however, is	another	matter.”	Master	Pevus	paused	as	if	he	was	uncertain	about	how	to elaborate.	“These	tests	are	designed	to	investigate	the	deepest	parts	of	you, the	ones	that	you	may	not	even	be	aware	of.	Sometimes	the	tested	can	be temporarily	…	damaged,	for	lack	of	a	better	term.	But	there	are	no	lasting effects.”

“What	happens	if	you	fail	the	first	test?”	someone	else	asked.

Master	Pevus	steepled	his	fingers	and	stared	down	at	them	for	a	moment, then	looked	back	up.

“If	you	fail	the	first	test,	your	memories	of	this	place	and	what	you	did here	will	be	magically	erased.	This	is	for	your	safety,	as	well	as	ours.	If	you pass	the	Compassion	test,	then	you	will	move	on	to	Magical	Aptitude.”

One	of	the	Curates,	I	didn’t	know	her	name,	walked	up	to	Master	Pevus and	whispered	something	to	him.	He	nodded	and	smiled	broadly.

“We	are	ready	to	begin	the	testing.	We	will	start	at	the	first	pew	and	work our	way	back.	Out	of	respect	for	your	fellows,	I	ask	that	you	keep	the	noise	to a	minimum.”

Master	Pevus	pointed	to	the	person	sitting	at	the	edge	of	the	first	pew.

“Will	you	please	join	me	up	here?”

I	recognized	the	person	from	my	first	day.	He’d	been	in	the	group	that	I had	walked	in	with	when	we	were	assigned	rooms	with	the	Provost.	I	didn’t know	his	name,	but	he	was	a	low	born	with	brown	hair.	Master	Pevus	led	him to	the	door,	where	one	of	the	Curates	opened	it.	The	master	ushered	him inside,	then	the	Curate	closed	the	door.

Both	the	master	and	the	Curate	left	the	room	through	another	door	and the	rest	of	us	sat	in	silence.	I	was	hoping	there	would	be	some	sort	of	sound or	something	that	let	us	know	the	test	had	started,	but	I	was	disappointed when	nothing	happened.	Eventually,	people	started	having	whispered conversations.

After	a	quarter	of	an	hour,	Master	Pevus	came	back	into	the	room	and called	up	the	next	person.	And	so	it	went,	over	and	over,	until	the	seventh bell.	We	were	released	for	lunch,	and	then	we	went	back	to	the	temple.	The process	continued.	I	wondered	where	the	tested	exited	the	chamber,	for	they didn’t	come	out	of	the	door	they	entered	in.	I’d	find	out	myself	soon	enough.

When	we	came	back	from	lunch,	everyone	had	moved	to	the	front	rows and	changed	spots.	I	stayed	near	the	back.	I	wasn’t	scared	to	take	the	test, but	I	wasn’t	jumping	in	excitement,	either.	This	was	the	first	step	towards proving	I	was	worthy	of	being	a	dragoon,	and	I	wasn’t	sure	if	I	was	ready.

Maren	sat	next	to	me.	I	looked	at	her	and	she	smiled.	She	didn’t	seem	any different.	Perhaps	I	had	imagined	her	face?

“Are	you	nervous?”	she	asked.

“A	little,	I	guess.	What	about	you?”

“Nope.	Why	are	you	nervous?”

I	shrugged.	“I	guess	because	if	I	fail,	I	have	nowhere	to	go.”

“What	about	your	family’s	land?	And	your	mother?”

“My	mother	died,”	I	said	softly.	“A	few	weeks	before	I	left	to	come	here.

She	had	the	wasting	sickness.”

Maren	frowned	and	laid	her	left	hand	atop	my	right.	My	mangled	one.

“I’m	sorry,”	she	said.

I	could	feel	my	eyes	well	with	tears,	but	I	refused	to	cry.	I	blinked	rapidly.

“What	about	the	land?	You	get	to	keep	it	by	birthright.”

“I	know,	but	the	land	is	dead.	Crops	won’t	grow,	and	all	of	the	people	who worked	for	my	family	left	after	my	father	died	in	battle.	I	am	a	noble	in	name only.	There	is	no	money,	no	food,	nothing.	The	Citadel	is	 all	I	have.”

Maren	squeezed	my	hand	and	in	some	unexplainable	way,	I	felt comforted.	We	didn’t	talk	much	after	that.	And	even	though	we	were	just waiting,	the	time	went	by	quickly.	When	our	pew	was	the	last,	I	began	to	get anxious.	My	palms	got	sweaty	and	my	heart	started	beating	faster.	Maren didn’t	let	go	of	my	hand	until	it	was	her	turn	to	enter	the	chamber.

“See	you	on	the	other	side,”	she	said,	grinning.

I	watched	her	until	she	disappeared	into	the	chamber,	then	I	leaned forward	and	looked	down	at	the	floor.	I	was	next	after	her,	and	there	were two	people	after	me.	I	considered	asking	them	to	switch	places	with	me,	but there	was	no	reason	to	delay	the	inevitable.	I	had	spent	so	much	time	looking forward	to	this	moment,	and	now	that	it	was	here,	I	could	hardly	believe	it.	I was	following	in	my	father’s	footsteps.

I	closed	my	eyes	and	inhaled	deep,	measured	breaths.	My	mind	needed	to be	clear	so	I	could	focus.	I	pushed	everything	from	my	mind	and	thought only	about	the	dragon	from	the	stables.	It	had	been	too	dark	to	see	what color	it	was,	but	I	remembered	its	glowing	eyes	and	its	razor-sharp	teeth.	To bond	with	a	creature	like	that,	to	share	in	its	strengths	and	weaknesses,	was hard	to	imagine,	but	I	knew	it	was	what	I	wanted.

By	the	time	Master	Pevus	entered	the	room	and	called	me	to	the	front,	I had	calmed	my	nerves	and	was	ready	for	the	test.	He	had	called	it Compassion.	While	I	didn’t	know	what	the	test	would	be	like,	I	knew	what compassion	was.	My	mother	had	been	the	only	person	who	didn’t	look	at	me differently	after	my	hand	had	been	crushed.	She’d	shown	me	compassion every	day.

I	walked	to	the	front	and	followed	the	master	to	the	door.	Curate	Anesko opened	the	door	and	I	glanced	back	at	Master	Pevus	one	last	time.	His forehead	was	stooped	with	worry,	but	he’d	looked	like	that	all	day,	so	I	didn’t let	it	bother	me.	His	eyes	were	a	faded	blue,	almost	gray.	He	smiled	at	me, and	I	felt	assurance	in	his	expression.	I	nodded	at	him,	then	looked	at	Anesko as	I	walked	through	the	doorway.

The	Curate	offered	a	single	nod.	I	bowed	my	head	to	him,	then	looked ahead.	The	chamber	looked	like	every	other	room	of	the	Citadel	with	its smooth	stone	walls	and	floor.	But	when	the	door	closed	behind	me, everything	changed.





9



I	was	in	Autumnwick’s	market.

The	Citadel	towered	behind	me	and	I	wondered	if	the	magic	of	the	test had	actually	transported	me	here.	Everything	was	strikingly	real,	so	it	must have.	It	made	sense,	considering	I	hadn’t	seen	anyone	come	out	of	the	testing chamber.	I	wasn’t	sure	what	I	was	supposed	to	do,	so	I	began	to	explore	the market.

A	young	boy	was	standing	beside	one	of	the	vendor	stalls,	watching	as people	passed	by.	He	was	a	low	born	with	black	hair	and	couldn’t	be	older than	eight	years.	His	face	was	dirty,	and	his	clothes	were	in	serious	disrepair.

As	I	walked	by,	he	called	out	to	me.

“Mister!	Do	you	have	any	coins	to	spare?”

Instinctively,	I	reached	for	my	coin	purse	before	remembering	that	I	had no	money.	I	patted	the	purse	anyway,	and	I	shook	my	head	at	the	boy.

“Sorry,	I	don’t.”

The	boy’s	eyes	gazed	at	me	as	if	he	was	able	to	discern	whether	I	was being	truthful	or	not.	He	tilted	his	head	to	the	side	and	smiled.	A	few	of	his teeth	were	missing.

“That’s	all	right.	May	your	luck	improve!”

“Yours,	too,”	I	replied.

I	continued	walking	through	the	market	and	went	down	a	row	I	hadn’t seen	the	other	day.	There	were	two	people	at	a	stall	about	mid-way	down	the aisle.	They	were	having	a	heated	discussion,	and	one	of	them	was	waving their	arms	about	wildly.	I	thought	about	going	down	another	row,	but curiosity	got	the	better	of	me	and	I	slowly	got	closer	to	them.

“I	saw	it	first,”	a	woman	said.

“Maybe,	but	I	asked	to	buy	it	first,”	the	other	woman	retorted.

I	glanced	at	the	vendor,	and	he	seemed	content	to	let	the	women	verbally

duel	it	out	between	themselves.

“It’s	the	last	one,	and	I	need	it.”

I	peered	between	the	women	and	saw	that	they	were	arguing	over	a slaughtered	pig.	The	amount	of	meat	it	would	provide	should	have	been adequate	for	two	families.	I	held	my	tongue	as	I	listened	to	their	exchange, but	then	one	of	the	women	started	to	act	like	she	was	going	to	resort	to violence.

“You	going	to	say	something?”	I	asked	the	vendor.	He	glanced	at	me	for	a moment,	then	looked	away	and	ignored	me.

“Ladies,”	I	interrupted.

At	first,	they	didn’t	acknowledge	me.	They	kept	yelling	at	one	another	and even	started	hurling	insults.	If	someone	didn’t	do	something	quickly,	I	was certain	the	two	would	end	up	hitting	each	other.

“Ladies,”	I	repeated,	louder	this	time.	That	got	their	attention.

“What	do	you	want,	boy?”	It	was	the	one	who	said	she	asked	to	buy	the	pig first.

“Isn’t	that	more	than	enough	meat	for	one	family?”

The	woman	looked	at	the	pig,	then	back	at	me.	“And?”

“Could	you	two	not	split	the	cost,	then	half	the	meat	so	that	both	of	you get	to	enjoy	it?”	It	seemed	like	common	sense	to	me,	but	the	look	on	the woman’s	face	revealed	that	she	hadn’t	even	considered	the	idea.

“I	…	I	suppose,”	she	said,	her	anger	quickly	deflating.	She	looked	back	at the	other	woman	and	seemed	embarrassed.	“That	does	sound	like	a	good idea	to	me.	What	about	you?”

“Yes,	I	like	that	idea,	too.”

The	first	woman	turned	to	the	vendor	and	asked	him	to	cut	the	meat	and divide	it	evenly.	The	vendor	seemed	disappointed	that	the	situation	had	been diffused,	but	he	obliged	her	request	anyway.

Satisfied	that	I	had	helped,	I	was	about	to	continue	walking	down	the	row when	the	first	woman	laid	a	hand	on	my	shoulder.	I	turned	around	and	she

held	out	a	silver	coin	to	me.

“Please,	take	this,”	she	said.	“As	a	sign	of	my	appreciation.”

“I	can’t	accept	that,”	I	said.

The	woman	pressed	the	coin	into	my	palm,	ignoring	my	weak	protest.	I tightened	my	grip	on	the	coin	and	the	woman	offered	me	a	smile	and	a	single nod,	then	turned	back	to	watch	the	vendor	cut	the	pig	in	half.

I	held	the	coin	up.	It	flashed	in	the	sunlight	and	appeared	to	be	newly minted.	The	inscriptions	on	the	coin’s	surface	weren’t	familiar	to	me.	In	fact, I	was	certain	that	the	coin	wasn’t	even	from	our	kingdom.	That	didn’t	mean it	lacked	value,	so	I	put	it	into	my	coin	purse	and	continued	down	the	rest	of the	row.

There	was	nothing	that	caught	my	interest,	so	I	headed	back	to	the	front of	the	market	where	I	had	started.	I	decided	this	wasn’t	much	of	a	test, especially	since	I	didn’t	know	what	I	should	be	doing.	The	boy	begging	for coins	was	still	in	the	same	spot.	He	looked	at	me	and	waved.	And	then	an	idea came	to	me.

Compassion.

What	if	I	was	meant	to	get	the	coin	from	the	woman,	only	to	give	it	to	the child?	I	walked	over	to	the	boy	and	knelt	in	front	of	him,	then	dug	the	coin from	my	purse	and	held	it	out	to	him.

“Here,”	I	said.	“You	need	this	more	than	I	do.”

The	boy	smirked,	his	eyes	glittering	with	mischievousness.

“I	see	your	luck	turned	around	quickly!”	he	said.

“So	it	did.”

“I	don’t	need	your	coin,”	the	boy	said.

“Oh.	Well,	I	figured	since	you	asked	me	earlier	…”

The	boy	was	shaking	his	head	before	I	could	finish	speaking.	He	pushed my	hand	away	gently	just	as	a	tremor	shook	the	ground.	The	vibrations	made my	knees	shake	and	I	glanced	around	the	market	to	see	if	anyone	else	had noticed	the	disturbance.

It	was	business	as	usual.	When	I	looked	at	the	boy	again,	his	facial expression	had	darkened.	He	stepped	closer	to	me	and	whispered	harshly,

“He’s	coming!”

“Who	is?”	I	asked.

The	boy	grew	fearful	and	he	looked	back	and	forth	frantically.	It	made	me uneasy	and	I	too	looked	around.	I	didn’t	see	anything	out	of	the	ordinary.

People	were	making	purchases	and	having	conversations	like	normal,	so	I was	confused	by	the	boy’s	fear.

“Who	is	coming?”	I	repeated.

The	boy’s	small	hands	gripped	my	shirt	and	he	stared	into	my	eyes.

“The	False	King	is	coming,”	he	whispered	harshly.

“Who	is	that?”

Dark	clouds	began	to	appear	in	the	sky	and	thunder	rumbled	in	the distance.	The	storm	was	brewing	quickly,	much	more	quickly	than	seemed normal.	Within	moments,	the	sun	was	blotted	out	and	lightning	flickered among	the	clouds.

Odder	still,	the	boy’s	eyes	were	glowing	with	a	dull	blue	light.	I	fell backward	and	scrambled	away	on	my	hands	and	feet.	The	boy	turned	to	the storm	clouds	and	raised	his	hands.	Flames	flickered	to	life	on	his	fingertips, casting	dancing	shadows	around	him.

The	storm	clouds	grew	thicker	and	darker,	sucking	all	light	into	their black	void.	The	people	that	had	been	in	the	market	were	gone.	I	realized	that the	buildings	and	tents	were	also	gone.	The	market	had	simply	vanished.	It was	only	the	boy	and	myself.

And	the	figure	in	the	storm.

A	lone	form	detached	from	the	darkness	and	strode	purposefully	toward the	boy.	The	flames	on	the	boy’s	fingers	arced	high	and	formed	a	fiery pattern	in	the	air,	keeping	the	figure	from	getting	any	closer.

Even	in	the	growing	darkness,	the	boy’s	magic	glowed	brightly,	defending us	from	the	shadows.	The	figure	struggled	to	get	past	the	magical	shield,	but

it	was	too	strong.	I	had	no	idea	what	was	happening.	Was	this	part	of	the test?	What	did	any	of	this	have	to	do	with	compassion?

“I	demand	you	leave!”	the	boy	shouted	at	the	figure.	“You	are	not welcome	here!”

“You	can’t	stop	me	forever,”	the	figure	finally	spoke.	His	voice	made	my flesh	crawl.	It	was	as	if	spiders	were	swarming	along	my	skin.	A	wave	of	panic spread	throughout	me	when	I	saw	the	magical	barrier	shudder	and	give	way before	the	darkness.

The	boy	screamed,	and	there	was	nothing	but	the	darkness.

I	closed	my	eyes,	preparing	for	my	inevitable	death.	And	then	I	heard	a familiar	voice.

“Eldwin.”

I	looked	up	to	see	Master	Pevus	and	Curate	Anesko	standing	in	a	doorway that	blended	with	the	stone	wall	of	the	testing	chamber.

“Is	it	over?”	I	asked.	“Is	the	test	done?”

“It’s	done,”	Master	Pevus	said.	“Come.”

It	was	finally	over.	The	strange	boy,	the	magic,	the	dark	figure	that	had snuffed	out	the	light.	My	heart	still	pounded	heavily	in	my	chest.	The	cold stones	of	the	floor	were	comforting	and	I	stayed	where	I	was	for	a	long moment,	then	rose	to	my	feet.	It	had	all	seemed	so	real	and	I	had	thought	for sure	that	I	was	really	in	the	market,	but	no.	I	was	in	the	chamber	the	entire time.	That	brought	some	relief	to	my	anxiousness.	It	was	all	just	part	of	the test.

Curate	Anesko	was	leading	us	through	a	hallway	that	curved	like	a crescent.

“Master?”	I	said.

“Yes?”

“In	the	test,	there	was	a—”

“Silence!”	Master	Pevus	shouted.	“I	told	you	all	that	what	happens	in	the test	is	for	the	tested.”

“Yes,	but—”

“No,”	he	interrupted	again,	his	tone	softer	this	time.	“What	you	saw	was only	for	you.”

I	didn’t	bother	trying	to	ask	again.	For	the	rest	of	the	walk,	I	replayed	the test	in	my	mind,	over	and	over.	There	was	so	much	that	didn’t	make	any sense	to	me,	but	perhaps	it	wasn’t	supposed	to.	Curate	Anesko	opened	a	door at	the	end	of	the	hall	on	the	left	and	he	motioned	me	inside.	I	went	in	and saw	all	of	the	students	who	had	already	been	tested.	I	saw	Maren	and	made my	way	to	where	she	was	sitting.

“That	was	wild,	wasn’t	it?”	she	said.

I	nodded.

“You	all	right?”

“Yeah,”	I	answered	softly,	still	burdened	with	my	thoughts.	I	remembered the	coin	and	reached	into	my	purse.	Cold	metal	touched	my	hand	and	I grabbed	ahold	of	it	and	drew	it	out.

The	coin	was	real.





10



“Gods,”	I	breathed.

“What?”	Maren	asked.	“What	is	that?”

“It’s	from	my	te—”	I	caught	myself	and	glanced	around	the	room	to	make sure	no	one	had	heard	me.	I	lowered	my	voice	and	leaned	closer	to	her.

“It’s	from	my	test,”	I	said.	“A	woman	gave	it	to	me.	The	test	isn’t	real,	so how	did	this	coin	come	back	with	me?”

“Now	who’s	breaking	the	rules?”	Maren	regarded	me	with	a	smirk,	but seeing	my	seriousness,	she	went	quiet	and	placed	her	hand	next	to	my	ear and	whispered,	“What	do	you	know	about	magic?”

“Almost	nothing,”	I	replied.

“Meet	me	tonight	after	curfew	and	I’ll	share	some	things	with	you.”

I	would	have	argued	with	her	about	following	the	rules.	Now,	I	was	too curious	to	object.	I	nodded	at	her,	then	turned	my	attention	to	the	front	of the	room	as	Master	Pevus	and	the	Curates	entered.	The	multitude	of conversations	died	abruptly.

“Thank	you,”	the	master	said.	“Due	to	unforeseen	circumstances,	the	last few	potentials	will	not	be	able	to	take	their	test	in	the	chamber.	For	us	to keep	in	line	with	the	rules,	they	will	be	tested	by	the	Curates	in	a	series	of exercises	we	employed	in	the	past	before	the	chamber	was	built.”

Master	Pevus	paused	briefly	and	I	wondered	if	what	happened	in	my	test had	anything	to	do	with	the	sudden	turn	of	events.

“Those	of	you	who	have	already	taken	the	assessment	may	go	to	dinner.

Remember	that	you	are	not	to	discuss	the	details	of	your	trials	with	the	other potentials.	Unless	you	have	any	questions	for	myself	or	the	Curates,	you	are dismissed.”

Everyone	stood	and	began	to	file	out	of	the	room.	Maren	and	I	followed the	others	out	of	the	chamber	and	made	our	way	to	the	dining	hall.	The

conversations	were	muted,	and	everyone	seemed	tired	or	distracted.	The master	hadn’t	been	kidding	when	he	said	the	test	would	push	you	in	ways you	didn’t	think	were	possible.

I	barely	ate	anything	at	all	and	ended	up	pushing	the	food	around	on	my plate	more	times	than	I	could	count.	The	curfew	bell	was	still	a	few	hours away,	so	I	took	advantage	of	the	time	and	went	to	the	infirmary	to	check	on Simon.	With	the	chaos	of	the	day,	I	hadn’t	devoted	much	time	to	thinking about	him	and	I	was	feeling	guilty.

The	healer	who	had	helped	me	was	there	changing	Simon’s	bandages when	I	arrived.	She	glanced	at	me	as	I	entered,	but	she	didn’t	say	anything.

Once	she	was	finished,	she	carried	the	dirty	bandages	away	and	I	stood beside	Simon’s	bed.	The	clean	wrappings	were	already	stained	with	blood.	I frowned	and	looked	at	Simon’s	face.	His	eyes	were	closed,	but	they	fluttered slightly.

“I	don’t	know	if	you	can	hear	me,”	I	said	softly,	“but	I	want	to	thank	you for	saving	my	life.	I	know	you	were	the	cause	of	me	getting	into	that situation	anyway,	but	you	could	have	left	me	for	dead.	I	know	I	wasn’t	born into	nobility	like	you,	but	I	think	all	life	is	valuable,	regardless	of	your	social status.	I’m	hoping	you	pull	through	this	injury	and	…”	And	what?	I	felt	like	I was	beginning	to	ramble.

“And,	uh,	maybe	once	you	are	healed,	we	might	end	up	as	friends	or something.	Thank	you	again,	Simon.”

I	turned	and	left	the	infirmary,	then	headed	back	to	my	room	to	get	some rest.	Considering	I	hadn’t	slept	the	night	before	and	the	day	had	been	full	of stress,	I	was	surprised	I	hadn’t	passed	out	from	sheer	exhaustion	yet.	I	pulled my	boots	off	and	collapsed	into	bed.	The	next	thing	I	knew,	Maren	was	gently shaking	my	shoulder.

“Wake	up,”	she	whispered.

Judging	by	the	lack	of	light	in	the	room,	I	figured	it	was	late.	I	sat	up	and rubbed	the	sleep	from	my	eyes.

“Sorry,”	I	mumbled.	“I	was	supposed	to	meet	you.”

“Don’t	worry	about	it,”	Maren	replied.	“We	can	talk	here	since	your roommate	is	in	the	infirmary.”

“Sure,”	I	said.	I	cleared	my	throat	and	pushed	myself	back	against	the headboard.

“Can	I	see	that	coin	again?”

I	fished	it	out	of	my	coin	purse	and	handed	it	to	her.	Maren	held	it	close	to her	face	for	a	long	moment,	then	nodded	and	handed	it	back.

“You	told	me	you	don’t	know	much	about	magic,”	she	said.	“Sorcerers	are secretive	in	nature,	so	most	people	don’t	know	anything	about	what	they do.”

I	was	fully	awake	now,	and	my	earlier	suspicions	about	Maren	hiding something	were	at	the	forefront	of	my	mind.	Before	I	could	stop	myself,	I blurted	out,	“You’re	hiding	something.”

“What	do	you	mean?”	she	asked.	Her	facial	expression	was	flawless,	but the	tone	in	her	voice	let	me	know	that	I	wasn’t	wrong.

“You’re	hiding	something,”	I	repeated.	“I	think	I	know	what	it	is.	You don’t	have	to	worry;	I’m	not	going	to	share	your	secret.”

She	stared	at	me	in	silence	and	chewed	her	lower	lip	nervously.	“Yes,	I have	a	secret,”	she	said.	“I’m—”

“A	sorcerer?”	I	interrupted.	“I	figured.	You	were	there	in	the	alley	when Jon	and	his	guards	attacked	me,	weren’t	you?”

Maren	heaved	a	sigh	and	seemed	relieved.	“Yes,	I	was	there.”

“Curate	Anesko	said	they	are	looking	for	whoever	cast	that	spell.	He	said	it was	powerful.”

“It	wasn’t	my	best	work,”	she	admitted.	“I	don’t	know	what	came	over	me.

I	saw	you	in	danger	and	just	…	acted.	I’m	sorry	I	almost	killed	you.”

I	swallowed	hard	and	tried	to	act	like	it	wasn’t	a	big	deal,	but	I	had	just gained	a	healthy	fear	of	her.	“Thank	you	for	what	you	did.”	I	held	the	coin up.	“Now	tell	me	about	this.	How	did	it	come	with	me	out	of	the	test?”

“I’ll	try	to,”	Maren	replied.	“Magic	is	like	the	wind.	You	can’t	see	it,	but you	can	feel	it.	You	know	when	it’s	there.	And	like	the	wind,	it	chooses	its own	path.	Why	did	the	magic	of	the	chamber	give	you	that	coin?	I	don’t know.	That	doesn’t	mean	there	isn’t	a	purpose,	though.	Even	though	most people	don’t	know	much	about	magic,	it	is	inside	all	of	us.	Not	everyone	can use	it,	but	for	some	people,	it	just	needs	to	be	awakened.”

“How	do	I	find	out	what	the	purpose	of	the	coin	is?”	I	asked,	still	trying	to understand	her	explanation.

“You’ll	have	to	figure	that	out	for	yourself.	Like	the	master	said	about	the tests,	it	is	different	for	everyone.	Speaking	of,	how	was	your	test?	You	said	a woman	gave	you	that	coin?”

I	glanced	at	the	open	door,	suddenly	afraid	that	someone	might	be listening	to	our	conversation.	Maren	followed	my	gaze,	then	looked	back	at me.

“Did	you	hear	something?”	she	asked.

“No,”	I	replied.	“I	guess	I’m	just	nervous.	My	test	seemed	fairly	normal	at first,	but	then	it	got	weird.”

“Weird?”	Maren’s	eyebrow	rose.	“What	do	you	mean?”

“A	storm	came	and	a	figure	made	of	shadows	stepped	out	of	the	clouds.	He got	into	a	magical	battle	with	a	small	boy.”

“That	 is	weird,”	Maren	said.	“Do	you	remember	anything	else?”

“Yeah.	The	boy	was	young,	and	he	seemed	afraid	of	something.	He	said someone	was	coming.”

“Who?”

I	tried	to	remember	what	the	boy	said.	Was	it	something	about	a	king?	I wracked	my	brain.	“I	can’t	remember	exactly.	Some	king,	I	think.”

“A	king	is	coming?”	Maren	asked.	“But	we	have	a	king.	That	doesn’t	make any	sense.”

“Tell	me	about	it.	Nothing	the	boy	said	seemed	to	make	any	sense	to	me.

He	was	afraid	of	whoever	it	was,	though.	And	then	he	tried	to	keep	the	figure

away	with	a	spell	that	created	a	wall	or	something.”

“This	sounds	vaguely	familiar,”	Maren	said.

“It	does?”

“Yes.”	She	nodded.	“I	heard	something	about	it	in	my	history	books.”

I	closed	my	eyes	and	tried	to	remember	the	sequence	of	events	in	the	test.

The	woman	gave	me	the	coin.	I	tried	to	give	it	to	the	boy.	The	storm	came.	The	boy said	‘he’s	coming.’	My	eyes	snapped	open.

“I	remember	now.	He	said	‘the	False	King	is	coming.’”

The	look	on	Maren’s	face	made	the	hairs	on	my	arms	raise.	It	was	almost as	if	she	was	seeing	a	ghost	behind	me.	I	ran	my	hands	down	my	arms, pushing	the	hair	down	and	trying	to	ignore	the	odd	feeling	of	dread	in	my stomach.

“What?”

“Don’t	you	know	who	the	False	King	is?”	Maren	asked.

“I	don’t	think	so?”

“How	do	you	not	know,	Eldwin?	The	battle	your	father	died	in	was	against the	False	King.”

I’d	honestly	never	heard	the	name	before,	but	suddenly	knowing	that	he was	the	cause	of	my	father’s	death	made	me	hate	him,	and	I	didn’t	even	know who	he	was.

“Who’s	the	False	King?”	I	asked.





11



Maren	stared	at	me	in	disbelief.

“You	really	don’t	know	the	story?”	She	sighed	and	shook	her	head.	“It’s	a long	tale,	but	I’m	not	going	to	tell	it	to	you.	Do	you	know	how	to	read?”

“Yes,”	I	said.

“Good.	You	should	go	to	the	library	and	find	the	books	about	him	and	find out	for	yourself	who	he	is.”

Obviously,	I’d	rather	she	just	tell	me,	but	considering	I	had	already learned	how	stubborn	she	could	be,	I	conceded.

“That’s	a	good	idea,”	I	said.

“Those	are	the	only	kind	I	have,”	Maren	said	with	a	smirk.

I	rolled	my	eyes.	“You	looked	worried	when	I	mentioned	that	king,”	I	said.

“Once	you	learn	about	him,	you’ll	understand	why.	If	the	chamber	was warning	you	about	his	return,	I	think	you	should	tell	the	master.”

“I	tried	to,”	I	said.	“He	wouldn’t	let	me	say	anything	about	my	test, though.”

Maren	frowned.	“Something	is	going	on,	but	I’m	not	sure	what	it	could	be.

Didn’t	Master	Pevus	seem	stressed	all	day?”

“Yeah,”	I	answered.	“But	I	think	it’s	because	he	was	dealing	with	the testing.”

“Possibly,	but	we	need	to	find	out	for	sure.”

“We? We	don’t	need	to	do	anything,	Maren.	You’ve	got	to	stop	breaking the	rules	or	you’ll	be	kicked	out	of	the	school.”

She	continued	talking	as	if	I	hadn’t	said	anything.	“Master	Pevus	and	the Curates	hold	a	daily	meeting	early	in	the	morning,	before	the	first	bell.	I know	a	spot	where	we’ll	be	hidden	but	can	hear	everything.”

“Maren,	I	told	you—”

“Yes,	yes.	You	don’t	want	to	be	kicked	out,	I	got	it.	I’ll	just	go	by	myself,

then.”

I	knew	I	couldn’t	let	her	do	that,	but	I	was	afraid	of	getting	caught.	And	I certainly	wouldn’t	want	anyone	reporting	her	to	Curate	Anesko.	I	heaved	a sigh.	“Where	is	this	hidden	spot?”

A	few	hours	later,	before	the	sun	had	yet	to	rise,	Maren	and	I	stood	before a	stone	wall	beside	the	school’s	council	chamber.	She	was	slowly	feeling along	the	stones,	but	I	wasn’t	sure	why.	As	I	was	about	to	open	my	mouth	to issue	a	complaint,	she	stood	up	straight	and	said,	“There!”

There	was	a	grating	noise,	then	a	section	of	the	wall	pulled	back	and	slid to	the	side.	There	was	a	small	room,	roughly	large	enough	to	hold	about	five or	six	people.	Maren	ushered	me	inside	and	the	wall	glided	back	into	place behind	us.

“What	is	this	place?”	I	asked.

Maren	clamped	a	hand	over	my	mouth.	“Ssh!	You	have	to	be	quiet	in	here or	they’ll	hear	you,”	she	furiously	whispered.

“Sorry,”	I	mouthed.

“They’re	already	talking,”	she	said.	Maren	knelt	and	motioned	me	to	do the	same.	I	obeyed	and	sat	on	the	floor	beside	her.	She	pointed	at	the	wall and	leaned	closer	to	it.	I	didn’t	know	what	she	was	doing,	but	I	mimicked	her.

To	my	surprise,	I	was	able	to	see	through	part	of	the	wall	and	into	the	council room.

“I	saw	it	as	well,”	Curate	Anesko	said.

“We	all	saw	it,”	Master	Pevus	replied.	He	looked	more	haggard	than	he had	earlier	if	that	were	possible.

“Yes,	but	what	does	it	mean?”	another	Curate	asked.	I	was	fairly	certain her	name	was	Josephine.

“I’m	not	sure,”	the	master	said.	“The	magic	was	warning	us,	but	I	don’t	see how	the	False	King	could	still	be	alive.	He	and	Matthias	fell	in	battle.	I	was there.”

“They’re	talking	about	your	test,”	Maren	murmured.	I	thought	so,	too.

“Perhaps	sending	a	scout	or	two	to	check	things	out	would	do	well	to	ease our	fears?”	Anesko	suggested.

“That’s	a	good	idea,”	Master	Pevus	said.	“Send	two	dragoons	who	ride blues.	Their	speed	will	get	them	there	and	back	within	a	few	days.”

“Let’s	hope	that	we’re	just	seeing	monsters	in	the	dark	that	aren’t	truly there,”	Josephine	said.

“Yes,	let	us	hope	so.”

There	was	silence	for	a	moment,	then	Master	Pevus	changed	the	subject.

“What	of	the	manual	testing?	How	did	that	go?”

“Very	well,	considering	we’ve	not	done	it	in	my	lifetime,”	Anesko	replied.

“They	both	passed,	according	to	the	documents.”

“That	is	good	news.	Based	on	the	chamber	tests,	are	we	all	in	agreement on	those	who	passed	and	those	who	failed?”

The	Curates	all	spoke	at	once,	but	the	consensus	seemed	to	be	agreement.

I	wondered	who	had	failed.	Was	I	one	of	them?	My	stomach	churned	with anxiety.

“There	is	one	final	matter	to	discuss	before	we	dismiss.”	The	master leaned	back	in	his	chair	and	rubbed	his	eyes	while	stifling	a	yawn.	“The	girl.”

The	room	went	quiet.	I	glanced	at	Maren,	but	she	kept	her	eyes	on	Master Pevus.

“Her	identity	is	unknown	to	the	others,”	Anesko	said.	“I’ve	listened	to	the conversations	all	day.	No	one	is	talking	about	her.”

“It’s	bound	to	come	out	sooner	or	later,”	the	master	said.	“I’m	not	worried about	that,	but	I	am	concerned	about	her	safety.	If	something	happens	to	her

…”	he	let	the	words	hang	in	the	air.	The	Curates	glanced	at	one	another,	but no	one	spoke.

“She	knew	the	risks	in	coming	here,”	Anesko	said.	“The	power	she	has doesn’t	change	that.	And	it	doesn’t	change	how	she	is	tested,	either.”

“I	agree,”	Master	Pevus	said.	“Her	father	is	the	one	that	poses	the	most problematic	if	something	goes	wrong.	From	the	reports	I’ve	received,	he

doesn’t	even	know	she’s	gone.”

“Then	we	feign	ignorance	if	he	finds	out	she’s	missing	and	that	she’s here,”	Anesko	said.	“Politics	have	no	place	here.”

The	master	laughed.	“You	still	have	much	to	learn	if	you	believe	that.”

Anesko	folded	his	arms.	“Our	task	is	to	train	dragon	riders.	So	long	as	we are	doing	that,	I	don’t	see	what	her	father	would	take	issue	with.”

“I	don’t	disagree	with	that,”	Master	Pevus	replied.	“Regardless,	we	all need	to	agree	with	her	presence	here.”

“I	see	nothing	wrong	with	it,”	Josephine	said.

“Neither	do	I,”	Anesko	added.

The	other	Curates	agreed	and	Master	Pevus	stood	up.

“It’s	decided,	then.	She	stays	and	will	take	the	tests	like	any	other potential.	If	her	father	becomes	a	problem,	I	will	deal	with	him.”

That	last	part	didn’t	sound	threatening,	but	more	a	statement	of	fact.	I wasn’t	sure	who	they	were	talking	about.	My	first	thought	was	Maren,	but the	only	thing	different	about	her	than	everyone	else	was	that	she	was	a sorcerer.	Maybe	her	father	was	also	a	sorcerer,	a	powerful	one,	and	they feared	his	anger	if	he	found	out	she	was	here	without	permission?

“The	council	is	dismissed,”	Master	Pevus	said.

Maren	and	I	waited	until	the	room	was	empty	and	we	didn’t	hear	anyone in	the	hallway	before	exiting	the	hidden	chamber.

“Who	do	you	think	they	were	talking	about?”	I	asked.

“We	didn’t	learn	anything	we	didn’t	already	know,”	Maren	huffed	in disappointment.	“Maybe	their	scouts	will	bring	back	some	news	that confirms	the	return	of	the	False	King.”

“Based	on	what	I’ve	heard	so	far,	I	hope	he’s	not	back.”

“That’s	something	I	think	everyone	would	agree	with,”	Maren	replied.

We	parted	ways	at	the	end	of	the	hall,	and	I	headed	back	to	my	room.	It was	still	early,	and	the	first	bell	hadn’t	rung	yet,	so	I	didn’t	pass	anyone	else on	my	way.	There	was	so	much	going	on	already	and	I	had	only	been	at	the

school	for	a	few	days.	It	seemed	that	more	mysteries	developed	by	the moment,	and	there	were	more	questions	than	answers.

I	made	it	to	my	room	and	paced	back	and	forth,	replaying	the	council meeting	over	in	my	mind.	The	magic	of	the	testing	chamber	had	spoken	to me,	that	was	clear.	And	it	had	given	me	the	coin.	I	retrieved	it	and	held	it	up, staring	at	its	engraving.	Maren	had	said	that	magic	was	like	the	wind	and none	knew	its	course,	so	how	was	I	supposed	to	know	what	the	coin	was	for?

“What	is	your	secret?”	I	whispered.	The	coin	remained	silent,	as	I expected.	If	it	had	replied,	I	would	likely	have	woken	the	entire	school	by screaming.	I	put	the	coin	back	in	my	purse	and	put	on	my	robes.	I	yawned and	considered	how	messed	up	my	sleeping	schedule	had	become.	Hopefully, it	would	get	back	to	normal	soon.

I	needed	to	find	some	time	to	get	to	the	library	and	read	about	the	False King.	Maren	had	given	me	almost	no	information,	and	my	curiosity	was rising	like	a	wave.	As	impatient	as	I	was,	the	time	passed	quickly	and	the	first bell	clanged,	signaling	it	was	time	to	wake	up.	I	joined	my	fellow	students	at the	bottom	of	the	stairway,	and	we	found	Curate	Anesko	waiting	for	us.

“Good	morning,”	he	greeted.

“Good	morning,	Curate,”	we	sounded	off.

“This	year’s	potentials	are	having	an	easy	beginning.	The	master	has declared	today	a	free	day,	but	do	not	get	lax.	Tomorrow	the	testing	resumes, and	it	will	be	an	interesting	time.	Remember	the	rules	you	agreed	to	and	stay away	from	the	dragon	stables.”

The	Curate	left	and	the	other	potentials	scattered	throughout	the	Citadel.

It	was	time	to	find	out	who	the	False	King	was.





12



The	library	was	located	at	the	far	north	end	of	the	Citadel.	Maren	had given	me	directions	during	breakfast	and	I	only	got	turned	around	twice before	reaching	the	wooden	doors	that	marked	the	entrance.

I	stepped	inside	and	was	surprised	to	find	that	the	place	was	immaculate.

Hundreds,	if	not	thousands,	of	bookstands	were	lined	in	orderly	rows.	There were	several	tables	and	chairs	near	the	windows,	where	natural	light	slanted in	through	the	glass	panes.	A	few	students	were	sitting	at	some	of	the	tables, large	tomes	opened	in	front	of	them.	The	most	notable	thing	about	the library	was	the	silence.

A	robed	woman	sat	behind	a	large	desk.	She	was	slowly	flipping	pages	of	a book	as	I	walked	up.	She	paused	and	looked	up	at	me.	I	remembered	her	from my	first	day.

“Surrel,”	I	said,	smiling	at	her.

“Son	of	Matthias,”	she	replied.	“How	are	you	finding	the	school	so	far?”

“It’s	different	from	what	I’m	used	to,	but	in	a	good	way.”

“That’s	good	to	hear.	I’ve	been	a	student	for	almost	a	year	and	I	can’t	say I’ve	had	a	bad	experience	yet.	How	about	your	testing?”

“I’m	not	sure,”	I	admitted.	“I	think	I	did	well	with	Compassion,	but	we haven’t	heard	our	results	yet.”

“No	news	is	good	news,	as	they	say,”	Surrel	said.	“Normally,	the	tests	are done	over	three	straight	days.	I’ve	heard	there	have	been	some complications,	and	the	testing	has	been	pushed	back?”

I	nodded.	“Yes,	our	next	test	will	be	tomorrow.”

“Well,	I	wish	you	luck.	Have	you	been	to	the	library	yet?”

“No,”	I	said.

“I	think	you’ll	like	it.	We’ve	got	the	largest	collection	of	books	in	the entire	kingdom,”	Surrel	said	proudly.	“If	you	are	looking	for	books	on	a

specific	topic,	you	can	search	the	index	for	book	locations.	Here,	let	me	show you.”

Surrel	stood	and	walked	around	the	desk.	I	followed	her	to	a	cabinet	with hundreds	of	small	drawers.	Each	drawer	was	labeled	with	a	metal	plaque inscribed	with	letters.

“Everything	is	arranged	in	alphabetical	order.	So,	if	you	are	looking	for	a book	on	felines,	you	will	open	the	drawer	that	has	‘FE’	on	it.	Then	you’ll	flip through	the	parchments	until	you	find	the	word	you	are	looking	for.	Don’t remove	it	from	the	order	it’s	in.	If	you	do,	the	Librarian	will	have	a	fit.”

To	show	what	she	meant,	Surrel	found	the	parchment	labeled	feline	and lifted	it,	but	not	completely	out	of	the	drawer.

“Listed	on	the	parchment	will	be	the	locations	of	any	book	that	covers	the topic.”	She	pointed	to	the	writing.	“R	Six-C	Three-S	Two	is	the	location	of	a book.”

“Am	I	supposed	to	memorize	that	since	I	can’t	take	the	parchment	out?”

Surrel	giggled.	“No,	of	course	not.	We	have	blank	parchments,	quills,	and ink	wells	available	for	use.	You’ll	just	write	down	the	locations,	then	take your	parchment	with	you	to	find	the	books.”

“I	can	take	books	from	the	shelf?”	I	asked.

“Yes,	so	long	as	they	are	not	chained	to	the	shelf.	If	they	are	chained, you’ll	have	to	read	the	book	there.	Chained	books	are	too	valuable	to	be removed.”

“Do	I	have	to	put	the	books	back	when	I’m	done?”

“We	prefer	that	you	didn’t,”	Surrel	said.	“Just	leave	the	books	on	the	table when	you	are	done	and	we	will	ensure	they	get	put	back	in	their	proper place.”	Surrel	looked	past	me	to	a	student	who	was	standing	at	her	desk.

“Feel	free	to	start	looking	through	the	library.	If	you	need	anything,	you	can find	me	at	the	desk	there	unless	I’m	helping	someone	find	something.”

“Thank	you,	Surrel.	You’ve	been	very	helpful.”

She	smiled	and	walked	away.	I	looked	at	the	vast	number	of	drawers	and

was	glad	that	my	mother	had	taught	me	to	read	and	write	when	I	was younger.	I	found	the	drawer	marked	with	FA	and	flipped	through	the parchments	until	I	found	what	I	was	looking	for.	False	King.	I	retrieved	a blank	parchment	and	dipped	a	quill	into	an	ink	well,	then	took	them	back	to the	cabinet	and	wrote	down	the	first	three	locations	of	books.

I	closed	the	drawer	and	walked	along	the	shelves,	completely	confused.	I had	no	idea	what	the	locations	meant,	and	there	were	no	obvious	markings on	the	bookstands.	After	several	frustrating	moments,	I	gave	up	and	went	to get	help	from	Surrel.	She	was	sitting	at	her	desk	scribbling	notes.	She	looked up	as	I	approached.

“I’m	sorry	for	interrupting	you,”	I	said,	“but	I	can’t	seem	to	figure	out	how to	find	these	locations.”

“Oh!	I	apologize!”	She	said	loudly,	then	quickly	lowered	her	voice	in embarrassment.	“I	forgot	to	explain	the	locations.	Let	me	see	your parchment.”

I	handed	it	to	her	and	she	pointed	to	the	first	one.	“The	first	set	of	letters and	numbers	is	the	row	number.	You	can	find	the	row	numbers	at	the	top	of the	bookstand,	on	the	upper	left-hand	corner.	So,	‘R	sixteen’	stands	for	Row Sixteen.	The	second	set	is	the	case	number,	which	is	the	section.	So	‘C	twelve’

stands	for	Case	Twelve.	And	the	final	number	is	the	shelf	position	on	that case.”

“Now	that	you’ve	explained	it,	it	makes	sense.	I	don’t	know	how	I	didn’t figure	that	out	on	my	own.”

“Don’t	worry	about	it,”	Surrel	said.	“Most	of	us	never	figured	it	out	on	our own.”

“Thank	you	again,”	I	said.

Armed	with	new	information,	I	easily	found	the	first	location.	The	shelf contained	about	fifty	books,	but	none	of	them	were	about	the	False	King.

Assuming	someone	already	had	that	book,	I	went	to	the	second	location	on my	parchment	but	found	the	same	problem.	The	third	location	was	also

lacking	the	book	I	needed.

I	scratched	my	chin	and	headed	back	to	the	cabinet	to	find	more	locations.

I	wrote	down	three	more,	then	searched	those	locations.	Again,	each	shelf was	lacking	anything	about	the	False	King.	Growing	frustrated,	I	went	back	to Surrel’s	desk.	She	was	absent,	so	I	waited	for	her	to	come	back.	A	short moment	later,	she	returned.

“I’m	not	sure	if	I’m	looking	incorrectly,	but	I	don’t	see	the	books	I’m looking	for	in	these	locations.”	I	held	out	the	parchment	to	Surrel.

She	took	it	and	looked	at,	then	motioned	for	me	to	follow	her.	I	was worried	I	had	searched	erroneously	and	she	was	going	to	make	me	look	like	a fool.	However,	she	went	to	the	same	location	I	had	and	perused	the	books	on the	shelf.

“Someone	may	have	this	book,”	she	said	softly.

“That’s	what	I	thought,”	I	replied.	“Yet	I	looked	for	six	different	books	and none	of	them	are	here.”

“That	is	a	little	odd,	though	someone	may	be	researching	the	topic.	Let’s check	a	few	of	the	other	locations.”

Surrel	and	I	went	back	to	the	cabinet,	and	she	wrote	down	a	few	more locations.	Her	handwriting	was	much	smoother	than	mine.	She	led	the	way to	the	various	locations,	and	each	time	we	encountered	the	same	thing.	She seemed	to	be	growing	frustrated.

“Let’s	go	to	the	chained	books,”	she	suggested.

The	rows	of	bookstands	with	chained	books	took	up	much	less	space	in	the library	than	the	regular	books.	We	went	to	the	location	and	Surrel	frowned.

“Now	this	 is	odd,”	she	muttered.	She	pushed	a	few	of	the	books	apart.

Hidden	behind	the	books	was	a	piece	of	a	broken	chain.	A	gasp	escaped Surrel	and	she	looked	at	me,	her	eyes	wide.

“This	is	bad,”	she	whispered.	“Very	bad.	The	Librarian	is	going	to	be furious	that	someone	took	a	chained	book.”

I	was	less	concerned	about	that	than	she	was	and	more	concerned	that

every	book	on	the	False	King	was	inexplicably	missing	from	the	library.

Surrel	left	me	to	find	the	Librarian,	and	I	checked	a	few	other	locations	with no	luck.	Giving	up,	I	left	the	library	and	wandered	around	the	Citadel,	letting my	thoughts	drift.	Maren	knew	about	the	False	King,	so	I	started	looking	for her.	I	had	a	feeling	she	was	down	in	the	dragon	stables,	and	I	wasn’t	going down	there.

The	seventh	bell	rang	and	I	went	to	the	dining	hall	for	lunch.	Maren	was there	eating	at	a	table	by	herself.	I	filled	a	tray	of	food	and	joined	her.

“You’ll	never	believe	what	happened	in	the	library,”	I	said.

“What?”	Maren	asked	with	a	mouth	full	of	partially	chewed	food.

“All	of	the	books	on	the	False	King	are	missing.	Even	the	chained	books.”

Maren	stopped	chewing	and	stared	at	me.	“Are	you	serious?”

“Yes.	Surrel	even	looked	with	me.	She	said	the	Librarian	is	going	to	be upset	that	someone	broke	the	chains.”

“Eldwin,”	Maren	whispered.	“Someone	stole	those	books,	I’m	sure	of	it.”

“That’s	what	I	figured,”	I	replied.

“There’s	only	one	reason	someone	would	take	them.”

“Why	is	that?”	I	asked.

“Someone	is	trying	to	hide	something.”





13



“Who	would	be	trying	to	hide	something	related	to	the	False	King?”	I asked.

“One	of	his	servants,	obviously,”	Maren	replied.	“There	must	be	a	servant here	in	the	Citadel.	A	spy	relaying	information	back	to	the	False	King.”

“We	don’t	even	know	if	the	False	King	is	back,”	I	pointed	out.

“Always	assume	your	enemy	is	two	steps	ahead	of	you.”

I	was	familiar	with	the	saying.	My	father	said	it	a	lot	when	I	was	younger.	I never	understood	it	back	then,	but	I	did	now.

Maren	lowered	her	voice.	“I	bet	it’s	one	of	the	Curates.”

“Why	would	you	think	that?”	I	asked.

“Well,	it	could	be	Master	Pevus,	but	I	don’t	think	he’d	be	so	stressed	if	he were	the	False	King’s	agent.	So	that	leaves	the	Curates.	Think	about	it.	They have	access	to	almost	everything	in	the	Citadel,	and	they	are	in	the	council meetings.	That	makes	them	privy	to	a	lot	of	information.”

I	didn’t	want	to	admit	it,	but	she	had	a	point.	“Let	the	master	know	what you	think	and	see	what	he	says.”

Maren	was	shaking	her	head	before	I	finished	speaking.	“No.	I’ll	need more	than	just	my	theory	to	sway	Master	Pevus	into	believing	that	one	of	his trusted	people	is	a	spy.	I’ll	need	proof.”

I	knew	where	she	was	going	and	sighed.

“We	need	to	follow	the	Curates	around	and	see	what	we	can	find.”

“You	do	know	that	none	of	this	is	your	responsibility,	right?	It’s	not	your job	to	find	a	spy	if	there	even	is	one.”

Maren	stated	at	me	in	silence	and	judging	by	the	look	on	her	face,	it seemed	I	had	hurt	her	feelings	somehow.	The	look	quickly	disappeared	and was	replaced	by	her	customary	stubbornness.

“If	you	don’t	want	to	help	find	who	is	trying	to	help	the	False	King,	that’s

fine.	I	can	do	it	alone.”	She	stood	up	and	left	the	table,	leaving	her	tray	of food	mostly	uneaten.	I	shoved	a	roll	into	my	mouth	and	hurried	after	her, chewing	furiously.

“I	do	want	to	help,”	I	said.	“I’m	just	not	sure	how	well	this	will	go	if	we	get caught	by	the	spy.”

“What	do	you	mean?”	Maren	asked.

“Well,	I	would	assume	that	if	the	False	King	put	a	spy	here,	they	would powerful.”

“Of	course.”

“And	we’re	barely	initiates,”	I	added.

“Did	you	forget	that	I’m	a	sorcerer?”

“No,”	I	said.	“But	have	you	ever	fought	another	sorcerer?”

Maren’s	silence	gave	me	the	answer	I	needed.

“I’m	not	planning	on	confronting	them	myself,”	she	said.	“I	just	need proof	that	I	can	take	to	Master	Pevus.”

This	plan	didn’t	seem	very	thought	out,	but	for	some	inexplicable	reason,	I continued	to	follow	Maren	toward	trouble.

It	turned	out	that	there	were	many	hidden	rooms	like	the	one	we’d	hidden in	when	we	listened	to	the	council	meeting.	The	fact	that	Maren	had memorized	their	locations	after	seeing	a	map	of	the	school	was	beyond impressive.	Maybe	sorcerers	were	gifted	with	better	minds	than	those	of	us who	weren’t	magically	inclined?

We	snuck	into	Curate	Anesko’s	room	and	Maren	opened	the	door	to	the hidden	room.	It	was	about	the	same	size	as	the	first	one,	but	we	weren’t forced	to	sit	down	to	see	into	the	Curate’s	chambers.	After	an	hour	of	sitting idly,	Anesko	entered	the	room	and	sat	at	his	desk.	He	flipped	through	a	stack of	books	and	scattered	parchments	around	as	he	scratched	notes.	I	assumed he	was	studying	or	something,	but	he	certainly	wasn’t	doing	anything suspicious.

The	small	room	was	warm	and	cozy.	I	must	have	dozed	off,	because	the

next	thing	I	knew,	Maren	was	jabbing	me	with	her	elbow.

“What	is	it?”	I	asked.	I	saw	that	Anesko	was	gone.

“You	were	snoring,”	she	complained.	“You’re	lucky	Anesko	left	before	you got	too	loud.”

“Sorry,”	I	said,	shrugging.

“Let’s	get	out	of	here	before	he	comes	back.”

We	left	and	navigated	our	way	through	the	maze	of	hallways	until	we reached	an	area	I	didn’t	recognize.

“Where	are	we?”	I	asked.

“This	is	the	hall	for	female	Curates,”	Maren	said.	“The	chambers	are	on opposite	sides	of	the	Citadel.”

Maren	paused	outside	the	first	door	on	the	left	side	of	the	hall.

“Whose	room	is	this?”	I	asked.

“Curate	Josphine’s.”

After	having	listened	to	the	council	meeting	earlier,	I	didn’t	think Josephine	would	be	a	spy.	She	was	too	nice	to	be	evil.	I	didn’t	bother	voicing my	opinion	to	Maren.	She	would	refuse	to	listen	until	she	saw	it	for	herself.

Maren	knocked	gently	on	the	door.	There	was	no	answer.	She	waited	a moment,	then	pushed	the	door	open.	Its	hinges	creaked	softly.

I	let	Maren	go	in	first.	She	looked	around	and	waved	me	in.	Josephine’s room	was	much	different	than	Anesko’s.	There	were	no	windows	and	no candles.	Instead,	a	ball	of	light	hovered	near	the	ceiling.	It	bobbed	up	and down	a	few	inches,	causing	shadows	to	flutter	back	and	forth	across	the room.

“This	is	…”	Maren	paused.

“Different?”	I	offered.

“I	was	going	to	say	creepy.”

I	rolled	my	eyes.	It	was	a	 little	creepy,	but	I	wouldn’t	tell	her	that.	“Is	there another	one	of	those	hidden	rooms	in	here?”

Maren	smiled	at	me	and	walked	over	to	the	wall	beside	a	tall	bookcase.

She	pushed	on	one	of	the	bricks	in	the	wall	and	it	slid	to	the	side.	My	eyes widened	in	shock.	Inside	the	small	chamber	was	an	elderly	woman.	I	didn’t know	who	she	was.	Maren	gasped.

The	woman	was	bound	and	gagged.	Her	eyes	were	closed	and	for	a moment,	I	thought	she	was	dead.	Upon	further	inspection,	her	body	moved with	her	breathing	and	relief	washed	over	me.

“I	think	we	know	who’s	working	for	the	False	King,”	Maren	said,	looking at	me	from	over	her	shoulder.

“We	need	to	move	her	out	of	here,”	I	replied.	“Before	Josephine	comes back.”

Just	as	we	stepped	into	the	small	room,	I	heard	footsteps	echoing	in	the hallway.	Fear	made	my	heart	feel	like	it	dropped	into	my	stomach.	Maren closed	the	door	and	we	sat	in	the	dark,	not	daring	to	move	at	all.	I	watched through	the	bricks,	which	I	was	beginning	to	suspect	were	enchanted,	as Josephine	walked	into	the	chamber.	She	closed	the	door	and	locked	it.	The Curate	walked	with	a	natural	grace	that	I	hadn’t	noticed	before.

In	the	center	of	the	room	was	a	brazier	that	looked	like	it	had	never	been used.	It	was	made	of	steel	and	shined	eerily	under	the	magical	light.

Josephine	walked	over	to	it	and	drew	a	dagger	from	her	robes,	then	ran	the edge	of	the	blade	across	her	palm.	I	winced	involuntarily.

Josephine	knelt	in	front	of	the	brazier	and	ran	her	bloody	hand	across	the middle	of	it.	I	knew	that	she	was	probably	about	to	cast	a	spell,	and	my curiosity	kept	my	eyes	glued	to	her.	She	grabbed	a	handful	of	bright	yellow powder	from	a	bowl	beside	the	brazier	and	spoke	an	arcane	word	as	she threw	the	powder	onto	the	brazier.

Flames	roared	to	life	and	the	smell	of	smoke	and	ether	filled	my	nostrils.	I glanced	over	at	Maren,	but	she	was	watching	Josephine	as	intently	as	I	was.

“Master,”	Josephine	said.

I	turned	my	gaze	back	to	the	Curate.	A	dark	figured	appeared	in	the brazier.	The	figure	was	wearing	a	robe	and	reminded	me	of	the	man	who	had

battled	the	boy	in	my	Compassion	test.	Dread	started	to	set	in	as	I	realized that	the	two	could	be	connected	if	not	the	same	man	entirely.

“What	is	it?”	the	figure	asked.	His	voice	was	the	same,	hollow	and	shrill.

“We	have	a	problem.”

The	figure	turned	completely	around	in	the	brazier,	taking	in	the surroundings.

“Are	we	alone?”

“Yes.	Mostly.”

“Mostly?”

“One	of	the	kitchen	workers	saw	me	putting	poison	into	the	food	for Master	Pevus,”	Josephine	said.	“I	was	forced	to	tie	her	up	and	she	is	here with	us	now.”

“A	servant?”	the	figure	asked.

“Yes,	Master.”

The	magical	ball	of	light	flickered.

“Why	do	you	waste	my	time	with	such	trivial	matters?	Kill	the	servant	and finish	your	task.”

“Kill	her?	Are	you	sure?”

The	room	darkened	even	further	until	I	could	barely	see	Josephine’s outline.

“Forgive	me,	Master,”	Josephine	whispered.	I	could	hear	the	fear	in	her voice.

“Forgiveness	is	for	the	weak,”	the	figure	said.	“Do	as	I	have	commanded, or	I	will	send	another	to	replace	you.”

“Of	course,	Master.”

“Is	there	anything	else?”

“Master	Pevus	is	growing	suspicious,”	Josephine	replied.	“One	of	the students	was	warned	of	the	False	King’s	return	by	the	magic	of	the	testing chamber.”

“I’m	aware	of	the	magic’s	warning,”	the	figure	said	dismissively.	I	knew

then	that	the	figure	from	my	test	and	the	one	speaking	were	the	same.

“Master	Pevus	has	dispatched	scouts	to	the	border.	They	should	arrive soon.”

“Yes,	they	arrived	a	few	hours	ago.	Master	Pevus	should	not	expect	their return.”

Maren	and	I	looked	at	each	other	at	the	same	time.	I	could	see	my	concern reflected	in	her	green	eyes.	My	heart	was	pounding	and	sweat	droplets	were rolling	down	my	sides.	This	was	bad.

“Won’t	that	make	him	more	intent	on	finding	out	what’s	happening?”

“Let	him	wonder.	My	army	swells	in	number	daily.	By	the	time	the dragoons	are	recalled	across	the	kingdom	and	reach	the	border,	it	will	be	too late.	I	have	other	matters	to	attend	to.	Kill	the	servant	and	poison	Master Pevus.	Do	not	fail	me	in	this.”

Josephine	bowed.	The	light	brightened	and	the	dark	figure	faded	from view.	The	brazier	was	spotless	as	if	there	had	been	no	blood	on	it	at	all.	The silence	was	intense	and	I	held	my	breath	for	fear	that	Josephine	would	hear me.	She	rose	and	stepped	toward	us,	then	hesitated.	She	had	a	thoughtful look	on	her	face,	then	she	unlocked	the	door	and	left.

I	waited	a	moment	to	make	sure	she	was	gone	before	pushing	the	wall open	and	stepping	out.	Maren	joined	me	and	we	looked	at	the	bound	woman.

“This	is	the	proof	we	need,”	Maren	said.	“If	we	can	get	her	to	the	master, she	can	tell	him	what	she	saw.”

“I	can’t	believe	Josephine	is	the	spy,”	I	said.

“You	heard	and	saw	what	I	did,”	Maren	replied.	“Hurry,	let’s	carry	her	to the	master’s	chamber.”

Maren	grabbed	the	woman’s	feet	and	I	tried	to	lift	her	by	the	shoulders, but	she	was	heavier	than	she	looked.

“She’s	frail,”	I	said.	“How	is	she	so	heavy?”

Maren	closed	her	eyes	and	whispered	something	under	her	breath.	A	few seconds	later,	she	opened	them	and	said,	“It’s	magic.	I	can	sense	it.”

“Can	you	break	the	spell?”	I	asked.

“No.	It’s	powerful	magic.	Old	magic.”

“What	do	we	do?	We	can’t	just	leave	her	here.”	I	said.

“We’ll	have	to.	Just	long	enough	to	get	the	master	and	bring	him	back here.”

Without	another	word,	we	ran	to	Master	Pevus’s	chamber.





14



Master	Pevus	listened	to	Maren’s	tale	without	saying	a	word.

His	face,	however,	became	stern	as	she	talked.	I	was	ready	for	him	to	call for	dragoons	to	find	Josephine	and	lock	her	in	the	dungeon.	Instead,	he surprised	me.

“You	are	walking	a	dangerous	line,”	Master	Pevus	said.	“Accusing	a	Curate of	treachery	and	potential	murder	without	proof	will	have	you	removed	from the	school,	regardless	of	who	you	are.”

“We	 have	proof,”	Maren	said.	“The	woman	is	still	in	Josephine’s	chamber.

She’s	been	ensorcelled	in	place.	We	tried	to	move	her	before	I	realized	that	a spell	was	preventing	us	from	doing	so.”

“Master,”	I	said.	“I	was	there	and	saw	everything	Maren	told	you.	Two witnesses	must	account	for	something.”

“Very	well,”	Master	Pevus	said,	rising	from	his	chair.	“Lead	the	way.”

Maren	took	off	straight	away.	I	followed	after	her	and	Master	Pevus brought	up	the	rear.	I	was	worried	that	he	might	not	be	able	to	keep	up,	but after	a	couple	of	glances	over	my	shoulder,	I	had	nothing	to	worry	about.

Although	he	was	aged,	he	moved	quickly	and	stayed	close	behind	me.

The	entire	way,	I	hoped	that	we	hadn’t	taken	too	long.	If	the	woman	had been	killed,	I	didn’t	know	what	I	would	do.	I	silently	prayed	that	the	woman was	safe.	As	we	neared	the	door	to	Josephine’s	chamber,	Master	Pevus	strode past	us	and	pushed	it	open.	He	disappeared	inside	and	Maren	and	I	hurried	to catch	up.

“I	see	nothing,”	Master	Pevus	said,	looking	around	the	room.

Everything	was	the	same	except	the	hidden	chamber	was	now	closed.

Maren	walked	over	to	the	wall	and	pushed	the	same	brick	as	before,	then stood	aside	as	the	wall	slid	open.	Master	Pevus	seemed	taken	aback.	I	looked inside	and	saw	that	the	woman	was	gone.

“How	do	you	know	of	the	hidden	room?”	he	asked.

“I	saw	it	on	a	map,”	Maren	replied.	“But	look!”	She	pointed	and	turned	to look	inside	the	room.	Then	she	froze.

“Look	at	what?”	Master	Pevus	demanded.

“The	woman	was	in	here,”	Maren	said.	“She	was	lying	right	here!”

Master	Pevus	looked	at	me	and	I	nodded.	“She	was.”

He	looked	back	at	the	hidden	room	and	remained	silent	for	so	long	that	it became	uncomfortable.	I	had	no	idea	what	he	was	thinking.	My	thoughts were	on	the	woman.	Where	had	she	gone?	Had	Josephine	carried	her	off	to kill	her	in	someplace	less	conspicuous?	My	heart	sank	in	defeat.	We	were	too late.

“You	will	not	repeat	what	you	told	me	to	anyone,”	Master	Pevus	said.	“Is that	clear?”

“Yes,	Master,”	I	said.

“Do	you	believe	us?”	Maren	asked.

“How	can	I?	There	is	nothing	here	to	suggest	your	story	ever	happened.”

“Why	would	we	lie	about	it?”	Maren	said,	indignant.

“Why	indeed?	Regardless,	you	will	not	tell	this	story	to	anyone	and	I	will not	excommunicate	you	from	the	school	for	false	claims.	This	behavior	is very	unbecoming	of	a	princess.”

Maren	opened	her	mouth	as	if	to	say	something,	but	Master	Pevus	scowled and	she	remained	quiet.	We	left	Josephine’s	room	and	Master	Pevus	closed the	door	and	offered	us	each	a	pointed	look,	then	he	stalked	off.

After	he	was	gone,	I	looked	at	Maren	questioningly.	“A	princess?	You’re	a princess?	The	princess? ”

Maren	rolled	her	eyes.	“Yes,	but	that	doesn’t	matter.”

“Yes,	it	does	matter.	Why	didn’t	you	tell	me?	And	how’re	you	royalty?

Your	hair	is	black.”

Maren	grabbed	some	of	her	hair	and	ran	her	fingers	through	it,	making them	black.	Where	she	had	rubbed,	her	hair	was	red.	I	stared	in	disbelief.

“What	is	that	stuff?”	I	asked.

“Charcoal.”

“Why	are	you	hiding	who	you	are?”

Maren	sighed	and	cast	her	gaze	to	the	floor.	“You	wouldn’t	understand.”

“I	might.”

“All	my	life,	I’ve	been	given	whatever	I	want	simply	because	of	who	I	am.”

“Is	that	a	complaint?”	I	asked,	not	trying	to	hide	the	sarcasm.

“What	I	mean	is	that	I	never	have	to	work	for	anything.	I	never	have	the opportunity	to	prove	myself.	I	thought	if	I	came	here	and	passed	the	tests with	no	one	knowing	who	I	was,	then	I	would	finally	show	everyone,	and myself,	what	I	can	do.”

That	made	sense	to	me.	I	found	it	difficult	to	understand	why	someone would	want	to	step	away	from	having	everything	to	willingly	work	for something,	but	I	could	understand	her	intent.	I,	too,	wanted	to	prove	that	I was	worthy	to	be	a	dragoon,	to	prove	that	I	was	worthy	of	the	respect	that my	father’s	deeds	had	earned.

“You	could	have	told	me,”	I	said.	“Are	you	really	a	sorcerer?”

“Yes,”	Maren	replied.	“Why?”

“Well,	I	don’t	know	what	to	believe	when	it	comes	to	you.	No	wonder	you weren’t	scared	of	being	kicked	out	of	the	school	for	breaking	the	rules.	Your father	would	just	force	Master	Pevus	into	letting	you	stay.”

“That’s	not	true.	My	father	may	be	the	king,	but	he	doesn’t	have	any authority	here.”

“Based	on	what	we	heard	in	the	council	meeting, that	may	not	be	true,”	I replied.

Maren	paused.	She	knew	I	was	right.	The	king	could	demand	anything	he wanted,	from	anyone.

“It	doesn’t	matter,”	I	said.	“We	need	to	find	where	Josephine	took	that woman.”

“I	don’t	even	know	where	to	start,”	Maren	said.	“I	don’t	know	anything

about	Josephine,	so	it’s	going	to	be	difficult	tracking	down	where	she	goes.”

“Are	you	giving	up?”	I	asked.

“No,	of	course	not.	I	never	give	up.”

“Then	let’s	start	looking.”

We	left	Josephine’s	room	behind	and	searched	for	hours.	Everywhere	we looked,	there	was	no	sign	of	Josephine	or	the	elderly	woman.	Maren	led	me to	tons	of	hidden	rooms.	All	of	them	were	empty	and	didn’t	appear	to	have been	used	in	years.	Thick	layers	of	dust	covered	the	floors	and	the	only prints	that	marred	the	dust	belonged	to	mice.	Or	rats.

The	thirteenth	bell	rang,	signaling	dinner.	Neither	of	us	admitted	what	we feared,	but	I	knew	that	she	had	the	same	thoughts	I	did.	Josephine	had probably	killed	the	old	woman	already.	If	we	could	at	least	find	the	body, then	perhaps	that	would	be	enough	proof	for	Master	Pevus.	We	headed	to	the dining	hall	in	silence.

I	ate	until	I	was	full,	but	I	could	barely	taste	the	food.	Everything	from earlier	felt	like	a	dream,	as	though	it	hadn’t	happened.	As	much	as	I	wished that	was	true,	I	knew	that	Josephine	was	an	agent	of	the	False	King.

“Who	do	you	think	that	man	is	that	Josephine	was	talking	to?”	I	asked.

“I	don’t	know,”	Maren	replied.	“He	gives	me	the	creeps,	though.”

“Same	here.	He	was	able	to	control	Josephine’s	magic	ball	of	light,	so	he must	be	a	sorcerer	of	some	kind.”

“That	makes	sense,	but	I	only	know	of	a	handful	of	sorcerers	who	aided the	False	King	in	his	war,	and	they	all	died.”

“Did	they?”	I	asked.	“Everyone	seems	to	think	the	False	King	died	as	well, but	recent	events	make	it	sound	like	that	may	not	be	the	case.”

“Fair	enough,”	Maren	said.

I	yawned	and	leaned	back	in	my	chair.	“We	only	have	a	few	hours	before curfew.	I	want	to	keep	searching,	but	I’m	exhausted	and	tomorrow	we	have to	take	the	next	test.”

Maren	looked	at	me.	Her	eyes	were	watery.

“What’s	wrong?”	I	asked.

“I	can’t	help	but	think	that	I	could	have	done	more	to	free	that	woman from	Josephine’s	spells.”

“You	said	yourself	that	the	magic	was	too	strong.”

“I	know,	but	I	didn’t	even	try	to	break	the	spell.	What	if	I	had	and	we	had been	able	to	free	her?	She	would	still	be	alive.”

“She	could	still	be	alive	now,”	I	said.	“We	haven’t	found	any	trace	of	them, but	that	doesn’t	mean	Josephine	killed	her.	Maybe	she	just	moved	her somewhere	else?”

“Maybe,”	Maren	replied.	She	wiped	the	edges	of	her	eyes	with	the	end	of her	sleeve.

“We	can	look	some	more	tomorrow	when	our	tests	are	done,”	I	offered.

“That’s	a	good	idea.	I	think	I’m	going	to	bed	early,”	Maren	said.	“I’ve	got	a lot	on	my	mind	that	I	need	to	deal	with.”

“Now	that	is	a	good	idea,”	I	said.

“That’s	the	only	kind	I	have,”	Maren	said,	her	mouth	curling	into	a	smirk.

“There	she	is.”	I	didn’t	like	seeing	her	downcast,	but	I	understood	how	she felt.	If	we	had	done	more	to	try	and	free	the	woman,	perhaps	we	would	have succeeded.	We	left	the	dining	hall	and	walked	together	to	our	wing	of	the Citadel.	Halfway	there,	Maren	grabbed	onto	my	hand	and	held	it	until	we parted	ways	at	the	top	of	the	stairs.

“Goodnight,	Eldwin.	And	good	luck	tomorrow.	I’ll	meet	you	here	after	the tests?”

It	was	a	question	more	than	a	statement,	and	I	nodded.	“Yes,	it’s	a	plan.”

“Good.”	She	started	to	walk	away,	then	paused.	“It	could	be	a	date, instead.”

Then	she	left	me	standing	alone,	my	cheeks	flushed	red.





15



When	the	bell	rang	for	breakfast	in	the	morning,	I	was	already	awake	and dressed	in	my	robes.	I’d	found	it	difficult	to	get	to	sleep	after	Maren	had	said our	time	today	would	be	a	date.	Who	would	have	thought	that	a	low	born	like me	would	even	spend	time	with	a	princess,	let	alone	go	on	a	 date	with	one?

Certainly	not	me.

I	entered	the	dining	hall	and	filled	my	plate	with	a	biscuit	and	some	eggs.

Steam	rose	from	the	eggs	and	the	smell	made	my	mouth	water.	I	had	noticed that	most	of	the	other	students	didn’t	come	in	for	breakfast	until	later.	The lack	of	chores	had	probably	made	them	more	apt	to	sleep	in.	Since	today	was the	second	test,	I	made	sure	to	eat	enough	to	hold	me	over	until	lunch.

Oddly,	I	didn’t	see	Maren.	After	I	finished	eating,	I	wandered	the	halls	for a	while	to	see	if	I	could	find	her,	but	I	had	no	luck.	I	ended	up	going	back	to our	wing	of	the	Citadel	to	wait	for	Curate	Anesko.	He	was	already	there,	and he	didn’t	look	happy.	I	heard	him	muttering	about	everyone	running	late.	I was	glad	to	be	one	of	the	only	ones	waiting.	Maybe	he	would	look	on	me favorably	for	being	early.

As	everyone	else	slowly	joined	us,	I	saw	Maren	coming	from	the	direction of	the	stables	and	realized	why	I	hadn’t	found	her.	I	shook	my	head	at	her and	she	flashed	me	a	smile.	No	one	could	keep	her	away	from	the	dragons.

She	came	to	stand	beside	me.

“Begging	for	trouble?”	I	whispered.

“You’re	just	jealous,”	she	said	with	a	laugh.

“Seriously,	Maren.	I	would	try	to	keep	away	from	trouble.	Especially	since Master	Pevus	didn’t	believe	us	about	…”	I	glanced	around	to	make	sure	no one	was	listening.	“…	you	know	who.”

“I	won’t	get	caught,”	she	said.

I	stared	at	her	until	she	offered	an	exaggerated	sigh.	“Fine.	I	suppose

you’re	right.”

Curate	Anesko	cleared	his	throat,	drawing	our	attention.	The	group	went silent.

“Today	you	will	all	be	taking	the	Magical	Aptitude	test.	This	test	will evaluate	your	common	sense	when	it	comes	to	spellcasting.	Unlike	the Compassion	test,	this	one	is	much	more	involved	and	will	likely	go	late	into the	evening.”

Anesko	paused	and	looked	at	each	of	us	in	turn.	I	was	trying	to	figure	out how	I	would	take	a	test	that	required	magical	talent	when	I	didn’t	have	any.	I was	fairly	certain	that	none	of	us,	except	for	Maren,	had	any	magical inclination.

“Those	of	you	lucky	enough	to	bond	with	a	dragon	will	learn	many	things.

One	of	which	is	that	dragons	are	powerful	magic	users.	As	the	bond	grows, you	will	gain	abilities	you	don’t	currently	have.	Most	of	you	will	gain	the	skill to	cast	minor	spells,	but	some	of	you	may	become	strong	in	spellcasting, especially	depending	upon	your	dragon.

“If	you	do	not	currently	possess	the	talent	for	magic,	you	will	be	given	a potion	that	will	temporarily	allow	you	to	cast	spells.	You	will	drink	it	before entering	the	test	and	it	will	last	for	several	hours.	That	should	be	plenty	of time	to	get	through	the	obstacles.	If	not,	then	you	will	know	that	you	failed.

Are	there	any	questions?”

Silence.

“Good.	Follow	me.”

Curate	Anesko	led	us	out	of	the	Citadel	and	to	the	right	side	of	the grounds.	We	were	still	behind	the	wall	that	separated	the	school	from	the surrounding	city.	Large,	towering	bushes	formed	a	solid	wall	that	I	was unable	to	see	through.	The	bushes	seemed	out	of	place	as	if	they	weren’t normally	there.

A	long	table	was	set	up	nearby,	covered	with	at	least	a	hundred	vials	filled with	green	liquid.	In	front	of	the	table,	rows	of	chairs	had	been	set	out.

Anesko	ordered	us	to	sit	and	we	obeyed.	The	wall	of	shrubbery	rippled	oddly, like	a	wave	across	the	surface	of	a	lake,	and	then	it	split	open	and	Master Pevus	stepped	out.	I	craned	my	neck	to	glance	into	the	opening	and	briefly saw	a	maze	before	the	wall	closed.

The	Master	still	looked	rough,	but	he	didn’t	seem	as	exhausted	as yesterday.	The	Curates	gathered	around	him	and	they	conversed	lowly.	I assumed	they	were	talking	about	the	test	or	something	related	to	it.	I	smiled at	Maren	as	she	sat	beside	me.

“Are	you	nervous?”	she	asked.

“A	little,”	I	lied.	I	was	terrified,	more	so	than	I	was	for	the	Compassion test.	Even	though	we	would	drink	a	potion	that	would	let	us	use	magic,	I knew	nothing	about	the	arcane	and	feared	I	was	going	to	fail.

“Don’t	be.	You’ll	do	fine,	I’m	sure.	You’ve	got	a	strong	will.	And spellcasting	is	mostly	impressing	your	will	on	the	magic	to	do	what	you	want it	to.”

“Really?”	I	asked.

“Yes.	For	me,	it	helps	if	I	close	my	eyes	and	try	to	visualize	what	I	want	the magic	to	do.	Sometimes,	anger	makes	the	spell	stronger.”

“Like	in	the	alley?”

Maren	nodded.	We	watched	as	Master	Pevus	called	the	first	student	up.

Curate	Anesko	handed	the	student	a	vial	from	the	table.	He	drank	it,	then walked	toward	the	wall	of	bushes.	They	parted	to	let	him	enter,	then	quickly closed	once	he	walked	inside.

The	next	few	hours	were	filled	with	excruciating	boredom	as	we	waited.

Lunch	was	catered	outside,	and	no	one	was	allowed	back	into	the	Citadel unless	they	needed	to	use	the	lavatory.	And	that	required	an	escort	from	one of	the	Curates.

The	sky	was	overcast	and	a	gentle	breeze	was	blowing,	which	provided	a respite	from	the	heat.	It	was	the	middle	of	summer,	and	days	like	this	were rare,	so	I	enjoyed	every	minute	of	it.	I	leaned	back	in	my	chair	and	closed	my

eyes.	The	wind	felt	amazing	against	my	face.	I	tried	to	imagine	what	the	wind would	feel	like	while	riding	on	the	back	of	a	dragon.

Eventually,	I	opened	my	eyes	and	became	aware	of	dragons	flying overhead.	There	were	two	of	them.	One	was	blue,	and	the	other	was	green.

They	floated	lazily	above	the	maze,	and	I	assumed	their	riders	were	looking down,	watching	the	test	unfold.	The	scales	of	the	dragons	shimmered	and	I nudged	Maren	with	my	elbow.

“Look,”	I	said.

She	looked	up	and	smiled.	“I	think	that’s	Azer	and	Zymon.”

“They	have	names?”	I	asked.	It	sounded	dumb	as	soon	as	the	words	left my	mouth.

“Of	course.	All	dragons	have	names.”

“How	do	you	know	their	names?”

“They	told	me.”

“They	who?”	I	asked.

“Azer	and	Zymon.”

“The	dragons	spoke	to	you?”

“Sort	of,”	Maren	said.	“Once	you	are	bonded	to	one,	you’ll	be	able	to	speak with	them	telepathically.	If	you	aren’t	bonded	to	one,	they	usually	choose	to only	share	impressions	with	you.	Since	I’ve	been	going	down	to	the	stables	to see	them	so	often,	they’ve	become	comfortable	around	me.”

“I	would	love	to	do	that,”	I	said.	“But	…”

“You	don’t	want	to	get	in	trouble,	I	know.”

I	nodded	my	agreement	and	continued	to	watch	the	dragons	as	they circled	over	the	maze.

“Do	all	dragons	breathe	fire?”	I	asked.

“Yes,	but	every	color	of	dragon	has	a	unique	breath	ability	also.	Well, almost	all	of	them.”

“What	do	you	mean?”

“Blue	dragons	breathe	lightning,	but	also	breathe	fire.”

“Oh.	That’s	interesting.	What	about	green	ones?”	I	asked.

“Acid.	Black	dragons	also	breathe	acid.”

“White	ones?”

“Frost.”

That	made	my	brows	raise	in	surprise.	“Wow.	Imagine	a	dragon	breathing frost	at	you.	You’d	probably	freeze	within	seconds.”

“Probably,”	Maren	agreed.

“What	about	red	ones?”

“Only	fire.	They	are	the	exception	in	that	they	don’t	have	a	second	breath, but	their	fire	is	much	stronger	than	the	other	colors.”

“What	color	dragon	do	you	want	to	bond	with?”	I	asked.

“Green,”	Maren	answered	without	hesitation.	“You?”

“I’m	not	sure,”	I	said.	“I’ve	thought	about	it	a	lot,	but	I	just	can’t	decide.	I think	bonding	with	any	dragon	would	be	amazing.”

“I	agree.”

The	hours	continued	to	pass	and	dinner	was	also	catered	outside.	By	the time	the	sun	began	to	set,	there	were	still	about	fifteen	students	left	to	be tested,	including	myself	and	Maren.	When	it	was	Maren’s	turn	to	go,	she touched	my	hand	briefly,	then	went	up	to	Master	Pevus.	Since	she	was magically	inclined,	she	didn’t	need	to	drink	one	of	the	vials.	I	watched	her disappear	into	the	maze	and	began	to	wonder	what	awaited	me	inside.

The	sun	vanished	completely	and	the	Curates	cast	spells	of	light	to illuminate	the	area.	Glowing	balls	of	light,	much	like	the	one	I’d	seen	in Josephine’s	chamber,	bobbed	in	the	air,	casting	their	brilliance	everywhere.

Except	on	the	wall	of	bushes.	They	remained	dark	as	if	they	sucked	the	light from	the	air	around	them	and	suffocated	it.	I	swallowed	hard	as	I	stared	at the	wall.

Master	Pevus	called	my	name	and	I	rose	to	my	sheet.	My	knees	felt	weak and	my	palms	were	sweating. It’s	time	to	prove	myself, 	I	thought. I	can	do	this.

I	reached	the	table	and	Curate	Anesko	gave	me	a	vial.	I	held	it	up	and

looked	at	it,	then	put	it	to	my	mouth	and	lifted	the	vial.	The	liquid	was	thick and	sluggish.	It	felt	like	an	eternity	before	the	bitter	taste	hit	my	tongue.	I resisted	the	urge	to	gag	and	made	sure	to	drink	as	much	of	the	stuff	as	I could.	The	effect	of	the	potion	hit	me	immediately.	It	was	like	I	had	a	sixth sense	that	had	been	awakened.

Master	Pevus	motioned	me	toward	the	wall	of	bushes.	“Good	luck, Eldwin.”

I	bowed	my	head	at	him	as	I	passed,	and	stepped	in	front	of	the	wall.	The bushes	parted,	revealing	a	dark	maze.	I	could	see	glowing	orbs	floating	in	the maze,	similar	to	the	ones	the	Curates	had	cast.	I	cast	a	final	glance	behind me,	then	stepped	into	the	maze.





16



Magic	hummed	in	my	ears.

It	wasn’t	overly	loud,	but	it	was	noticeable.	The	chirp	of	crickets,	the	cries of	owls,	and	many	other	noises	filled	the	night,	but	the	magic	stood	out distinctly	from	every	other	sound	in	the	maze.	I	stood	still	for	a	moment, taking	in	the	sounds	and	looking	around.	The	walls	of	the	maze	were	all formed	of	the	same	shrubbery.	Despite	knowing	that	I	was	on	school	grounds and	taking	a	test,	I	was	a	little	scared.

I	looked	up	to	the	sky	and	saw	the	dark	silhouettes	of	the	dragons,	faint shapes	of	blackness	against	a	bigger	dark	canvas.	Somehow,	knowing	the dragons	were	up	there	brought	me	some	comfort.	Very	few	stars	were visible,	but	the	moon	was	full	and	bright.	The	pathway	I	stood	on	was	made of	gray	and	white	cobblestones.	The	white	portions	glowed	faintly	under	the light	of	the	moon	and	the	magical	globes	floating	around.

“I	can	do	this,”	I	whispered	to	myself	as	I	took	a	few	steps	forward.	To	my left,	there	was	a	brazier	filled	with	flames.	An	invisible	wall	of	heat	washed over	me.	I	was	about	to	walk	past	it	when	I	felt	the	pull	of	magic.	It	was	an urging	deep	within	me,	telling	me	to	get	closer.	Common	sense	warred against	the	magic,	warning	me	to	keep	away.	I	remembered	that	Maren	told me	closing	her	eyes	helped	her	with	spellcasting,	so	I	closed	mine	and listened	to	the	magic.

Water.

The	word	formed	in	my	mind.	I	lifted	my	hand	and	imagined	a	flow	of water	spraying	from	my	palm.	At	first,	nothing	happened.	I	focused	harder, pressing	my	will	against	the	magic	as	Maren	had	told	me.	There	was	a	slight resistance	but	it	quickly	gave	way.	I	felt	droplets	of	water	begin	to	drip	from my	palm.	I	opened	my	eyes	in	surprise	and	almost	lost	the	connection	to	the magic.	My	sheer	stubbornness	saved	the	spell.	I	refused	to	let	go	of	the

magic.

And	then	the	resistance	was	gone	completely	and	a	torrent	of	water flowed	from	my	hand.	I	stared	in	amazement	as	the	liquid	put	out	the	flames in	the	brazier.	The	heat	faded	and	I	released	the	magic.	I	looked	at	my	palm, still	reeling	from	the	fact	that	I	had	successfully	cast	a	spell.	Me.	A	low	born.

I	wiped	my	hand	on	my	robes	and	looked	around,	wondering	if	I	was supposed	to	navigate	the	entire	maze,	or	just	prove	that	I	was	magically capable.	The	wall	behind	the	brazier	parted	and	I	felt	the	pull	of	magic urging	me	to	go	through	the	opening.	I	did,	and	the	maze	opened	up	into	a large	square.

In	the	right	corner,	something	tall	loomed	in	the	darkness.	No	magical lights	shone	there,	nor	did	the	moonlight	seem	to	be	able	to	penetrate	the gloom.	Curiosity	got	the	better	of	me	and	I	walked	closer	to	see	what	it	was.

When	I	was	only	a	few	feet	away,	I	felt	the	ground	tremor	under	my	feet.	I stopped	walking,	but	it	was	too	late.

The	colossal	shape	in	the	corner	moved	toward	me.	I	backpedaled	and watched	with	a	horrified	interest	as	the	thing,	whatever	it	was,	stepped	into the	light.	It	was	at	least	three	feet	taller	than	me	and	appeared	to	be	made	of dirt	and	rock.	It	moved	slowly	but	inexorably	drew	closer.	I	kept	a	decent distance	between	us,	but	as	I	looked	around	for	an	escape,	I	noticed	that there	wasn’t	one.	The	walls	had	closed	and	there	was	nowhere	to	go.

I	kept	moving,	keeping	out	of	arm’s	length	of	the	creature,	and	considered my	options.	It	was	possible	this	was	part	of	the	test,	but	what	kind	of	spell would	defeat	a	creature	made	of	the	earth?	I	didn’t	know.	The	magic	pulled at	me	again,	subtly	getting	louder	and	louder	in	my	conscience	until	it	was like	someone	was	shouting	at	me—from	within	my	mind.	I	jogged	a	few	feet further	away	and	closed	my	eyes	for	a	moment	to	focus	on	the	magic.	Again, a	word	was	impressed	upon	my	mind.

Wind.

What	would	wind	do	against	such	a	creature?	I	opened	my	eyes	and

continued	moving.	The	creature	didn’t	stop.	It	was	only	a	matter	of	time before	I	got	tired,	but	this	thing	could	probably	walk	all	night	without stopping.	I	needed	to	do	something.

“Wind,”	I	muttered.

I	didn’t	understand	how	the	wind	would	stop	this	creature,	but	I	didn’t have	any	other	options.	I	hurried	further	away,	then	turned	to	face	the monster.	I	closed	my	eyes	and	focused	on	the	magic	like	I	had	with	the	first spell	and	envisioned	a	whirlwind.	I	lifted	both	hands	and	put	all	of	my willpower	into	the	magic.	I	could	feel	the	breeze	getting	stronger,	but	it	was taking	too	long.

The	grumbling	sound	of	the	creature	was	getting	closer,	but	I	kept	my eyes	closed.	If	I	lost	the	connection	to	the	magic,	the	creature	would	have me.	I	changed	plans	and	instead	of	a	vortex,	I	imagined	a	gust	of	air.	The wind	picked	up	and	my	robes	whipped	around	me	frantically.

I	opened	my	eyes	just	in	time	to	see	the	giant	fist	of	the	creature	coming down	at	me.	My	eyes	widened,	but	the	spell	had	worked	and	a	powerful	gust of	wind	blew	against	the	creature,	pushing	it	back	a	few	feet.	The	creature’s fist	missed	me.	It	roared	and	struggled	to	come	at	me.

Surprisingly,	I	could	feel	the	creature	push	against	the	magic.	It	was	as though	the	wind	were	an	extension	of	me,	and	whatever	happened	to	the wind,	I	could	feel	it	in	some	small	way.	I	gritted	my	teeth	and	forced	the	wind to	blow	harder.	The	magic	obeyed	and	whirled	furiously	around	the	creature.

Dirt	and	pieces	of	rock	began	to	break	free	and	were	pulled	away	by	the wind.

The	creature	roared	again.	It	moved	around,	trying	to	escape,	but	the wind	was	destroying	the	creature	bit	by	bit.	With	a	sudden	gust,	the creature’s	head	parted	from	its	body	and	the	rest	of	it	collapsed	into	a	mound of	rubble.	I	commanded	the	magic	to	stop	and	the	wind	calmed.	I	was overcome	with	exhaustion	and	almost	fell	over.	My	vision	blurred	and	I thought	I	was	going	to	pass	out.

After	a	few	moments	of	panic,	the	weakness	went	away	but	I	still	felt drained.	Was	the	magic	tied	to	my	strength?	If	so,	that	could	end	up	being very	inconvenient.	The	wall	of	shrubbery	directly	across	from	where	I	came in	shifted	and	opened	up.	I	walked	through	and	found	myself	on	a	long, straight	path.	The	walls	rose	up	on	either	side	of	me,	dark	and	imposing.	I stepped	slowly	and	quietly,	not	wanting	to	be	surprised	again.

I	got	midway	along	the	path	when	I	noticed	a	gray	statue.	It	was	in	the wall	of	shrubbery	to	my	right.	The	ornate	details	were	startling,	and	for	a moment	I	thought	the	statue	was	alive.	I	stared	at	it	for	a	long	while,	then continued	down	the	path.	A	sound	behind	me	made	me	stop.	I	didn’t	turn around,	but	I	listened	intently.

Nothing.

I	looked	over	my	shoulder,	but	there	was	nothing	there.	And	then	I	saw that	the	statue	was	gone.	My	heart	started	pounding	in	my	chest	and	I realized	that	the	statue	might	be	alive	after	all.	I	turned	back	and	there	it	was in	front	of	me.	It	had	wickedly	sharp	teeth	and	long,	deadly	claws.	The	magic felt	different	now.	It	wasn’t	pulling	me	ahead,	but	urging	me	to	flee.	Why would	the	magic	tell	me	to	run	from	the	test?

The	statue	hissed	and	clawed	at	me,	ripping	the	sleeve	of	my	robe.

Thankfully,	it	didn’t	scratch	my	skin.	I	leaped	backward	and	tried	to	force the	magic	to	fling	the	statue	away	with	a	gust	of	wind,	but	I	couldn’t	quite latch	onto	the	magic.	It	was	like	trying	to	grab	ahold	of	a	slippery	fish.	The statue	creaked	as	it	jumped	into	the	air,	stone	wings	giving	it	flight.	In horror,	I	realized	it	wasn’t	just	a	statue.

It	was	a	gargoyle.

Any	idea	of	fighting	was	quickly	banished	from	my	mind	and	I	turned	and fled	back	the	way	I’d	come.	The	wall	was	still	open,	and	I	ran	through	it	and back	into	the	large	square.	The	gargoyle	was	right	behind	me.	I	threw	myself to	the	ground	and	the	beast	flew	narrowly	overhead,	its	claws	swiping	at	me.

This	wasn’t	part	of	the	test.	It	couldn’t	be.	There	was	no	way	that	Master

Pevus	nor	the	Curates	would	have	allowed	such	a	dangerous	creature	to	be part	of	the	test.	A	gargoyle	was	all	but	undefeatable	by	someone	like	me.

“Help!”	I	screamed.

The	gargoyle	whipped	around	in	the	air	and	came	flying	back	at	me.	I scrambled	to	my	feet	and	tried	to	get	out	of	the	way,	but	the	stone	creature struck	me	squarely	in	the	side	and	I	tumbled	to	the	ground	with	a	cry	of	pain.

My	ribs	were	on	fire	and	I	was	afraid	that	some	of	them	might	be	broken.

The	gargoyle	stood	over	me.	It	flashed	a	smile	at	me	and	then	spoke	in	a gravelly	voice.

“You	…	die	…	now.”

I	closed	my	eyes,	not	wanting	to	see	what	the	creature	was	going	to	do.

There	was	a	fluttering	sound,	followed	by	a	cracking	noise,	and	I	opened	my eyes	to	see	a	dragon	and	its	rider.	The	dragon	had	the	gargoyle	in	its powerful	claws	and	had	snapped	it	into	pieces.	The	dragon	tossed	the remainder	of	the	gargoyle’s	body	aside	and	gazed	down	at	me,	its	intelligent eyes	looking	me	over.

The	rider	leaped	down	from	the	saddle	and	knelt	beside	me.	“Are	you	all right?”

“Yes,”	I	said.	“Thank	you.	If	you	hadn’t	come	just	now,	I’m	sure	I’d	be	dead right	now.”

“It	was	a	close	call,	but	Azer	spotted	the	danger	before	you	cried	out.

Dragons	have	exceptional	eyesight,	even	in	the	dark,	so	your	thanks	belong to	her.”

I	looked	at	the	massive	blue	dragon.	“Thank	you.”

The	dragon	tilted	its	head,	almost	like	a	human	nod.

“Come	on,”	the	rider	said.	“Let’s	get	you	out	of	here.	Master	Pevus	will want	to	know	how	a	gargoyle	got	into	the	testing	grounds,	I’m	sure.”

The	rider	helped	me	to	my	feet	and	then	climbed	into	the	saddle.	I scrambled	up	the	side	of	the	dragon	and	sat	behind	the	rider.	With	a powerful	flex	of	its	wings,	the	dragon	lifted	into	the	air.	I	looked	down	at	the

gargoyle’s	broken	body	and	couldn’t	help	but	wonder	if	Josephine	was behind	the	attack.





17



I	was	sitting	in	a	small	room	outside	Master	Pevus’s	office,	listening	to hushed	voices.

The	dragoon	who	had	come	to	my	rescue	sat	across	from	me,	dozing	in and	out	of	sleep.	After	landing	outside	of	the	maze,	the	dragoon	had informed	Master	Pevus	what	had	happened	and	the	remaining	tests	were	put on	hold	while	the	Curates	investigated	the	maze.	Once	the	Curates	had confirmed	there	were	no	other	hidden	dangers,	the	tests	resumed	and Master	Pevus	ordered	the	dragoon	and	me	to	follow	him.	A	quick	check	by	a healer	confirmed	my	ribs	were	 not	broken,	despite	the	throbbing.

I	feared	that	I	would	have	to	retake	my	test	or,	worse,	that	I	failed	since	I had	called	for	help.	The	dragoon	had	said	that	the	gargoyle	wasn’t	supposed to	be	there,	so	that	did	ease	my	fear	a	little.	I	thought	about	Maren	and wondered	if	she	had	heard	what	transpired.	Master	Pevus’s	door	opened	and Curate	Anesko	stepped	out	and	left.

“Eldwin,”	Master	Pevus’s	voice	echoed	into	the	room.	“Please,	come	in.”

I	rose	from	my	chair	and	went	stepped	through	the	doorway.	I’d	yet	to	see the	Master’s	office	and	was	surprised	to	find	that	it	was	sparsely	decorated.

There	was	a	desk,	which	Master	Pevus	was	sitting	behind,	and	a	couple	of chairs.	There	were	no	paintings	or	anything	else	to	show	that	the	office	was used	by	anyone.

“Are	you	all	right?”	he	asked.

“Yes,	Master.	A	little	shaken	up,	I	suppose,	but	I	wasn’t	injured	too	badly.

My	robes	were	torn,	though.”

“Good,	good.	We’ll	get	you	another	pair.	I	want	to	apologize	to	you.	That creature	wasn’t	part	of	the	test,	nor	should	it	have	been	there	at	all.	The maze	is	protected	by	powerful	spells	to	keep	such	things	from	happening,	yet here	we	find	ourselves.	The	Curates	checked	the	spells	and	they	are	all	intact.

That	leaves	only	one	explanation.”

I	waited	for	him	to	continue.	He	rubbed	his	eyes	and	leaned	forward, folding	his	arms	and	placing	them	on	the	desk.

“Someone	put	the	gargoyle	there	or	allowed	it	to	enter.”

Was	he	thinking	the	same	thing	I	was?	That	Josephine	was	behind	it?

“When	you	and	Maren	told	me	about	your	suspicions	regarding	Josephine, I	didn’t	believe	it.	Not	at	first.	Some	things	are	happening	that	I	cannot	tell you,	but	I	will	say	that	as	I	considered	your	allegations,	certain	things	did seem	to	fall	into	place.	You	and	Maren	are	right	about	Josephine.”

I	felt	a	rush	of	relief.	“Thank	you,	Master.	We	weren’t	lying.”

“I	see	that	now.	I	trust	you	understand	why	I	wouldn’t	believe	a	claim	like that	about	one	of	the	Curates?”

“Of	course,”	I	replied.	“I	didn’t	want	to	believe	it	myself.”

“To	make	a	long	tale	short,	I	placed	Josephine	under	Curate	Anesko’s watchful	eye.	He	has	confirmed	that	she	is	spying	on	us	for	someone,	but	we don’t	know	who.”

“Maren	said	it	was	the	False	King,”	I	said.	“but	the	man	Josephine	spoke with	was	someone	different.”

“Yes,	that	man	is	also	a	servant	of	the	False	King,	but	we	don’t	know	his identity	yet.”

“I	thought	he	was	dead?	The	False	King,	I	mean.”

Master	Pevus	sighed.	“So	did	I.	It	seems	that	may	not	be	the	case	after	all.”

“What	does	that	mean?”	I	asked.

“It	means	dark	times	are	ahead.	The	False	King	came	very	close	to achieving	his	ambitions	in	the	last	war.	I’m	afraid	we’ve	grown	lax	in	our watchfulness,	and	it	will	be	difficult	to	defeat	him	a	second	time.”

Master	Pevus	must	have	noticed	my	facial	expression,	for	he	waved	his hands	and	stood	up.

“Please,	don’t	think	about	such	things.	The	Curates	and	I	are	already	in communication	with	the	king	and	his	advisors.	We	will	sort	things	out	and

deal	with	the	False	King.	Now,	you	should	get	some	rest.	Due	to	all	of	these things	and	more,	we	cannot	delay	the	testing	any	further.	Tomorrow,	we	will conclude	the	testing	and	make	our	decisions.”

We	left	the	office	and	Master	Pevus	kicked	a	leg	of	the	chair	the	dragoon was	sitting	in,	causing	him	to	startle	awake.

“Apologies,	Master,”	he	said,	standing.	“It’s	been	a	long	shift.”

“I	understand,”	Master	Pevus	said,	offering	a	smile.	“You	are	dismissed.

Report	back	to	your	commander.”

The	dragoon	bowed	and	hurried	away.

“As	for	you,	know	that	your	father	would	be	proud	of	how	you’ve	handled the	tests	so	far.”

“Thank	you,”	I	said.	“I	only	wish	he	were	here	to	see	it	for	himself.”

“Indeed.”

I	started	to	leave,	then	paused	and	turned	to	look	at	Master	Pevus.

“I	have	a	question.	Curate	Anesko	said	that	the	tests	would	be	so	hard	it would	make	us	wish	we	were	dead.	The	Magical	Aptitude	test	didn’t	seem that	difficult,	so	why	would	he	say	that?”

Master	Pevus	tried	to	keep	from	smiling	but	failed.	“Curate	Anesko	likes to	exaggerate	to	weed	out	any	potentials	that	might	doubt	themselves.”

“That	makes	sense,”	I	said.

“However,	you	did	much	better	with	magic	than	most	everyone	else	in your	class.	So,	while	it	may	have	seemed	easy	to	you,	it	was	not	for	many others.”

Excitement	welled	within	me.	His	words	meant	I	passed!	At	least,	that’s how	I	perceived	them.	Either	way,	the	fact	that	I	had	handled	the	magic	so well	could	only	mean	good	things	in	the	future.

“Don’t	repeat	what	we’ve	spoken	about	to	anyone,”	Master	Pevus	said.

“I	won’t.	Goodnight,	Master.”

“Goodnight,	Eldwin.”

I	navigated	my	way	back	to	my	room	and	realized	it	was	well	after

midnight	when	I	climbed	into	my	bed.	I	drifted	off	to	sleep	almost immediately.

When	I	awoke,	one	of	the	bells	was	ringing.	I	didn’t	know	which	one	it was,	so	I	jumped	up	to	get	ready.	I	noticed	a	new	robe	was	folded	and	set	at the	edge	of	my	bed.	I	switched	it	for	the	torn	one	I	had	fallen	asleep	in	and hurried	down	to	the	dining	hall.	It	turned	out	it	was	the	third	bell,	signaling breakfast.

I	ate	quickly	and	headed	back	to	my	wing	to	await	Curate	Anesko.	Maren was	already	there.	I	stood	beside	her	and	gave	her	a	tired	smile.

“Late	night?”	she	asked.

“Too	late,”	I	replied.	“Did	you	hear	what	happened?”

“Bits	and	pieces.	The	Curates	were	squashing	any	rumors.”

“A	gargoyle	attacked	me	during	the	test.”

“So,	that	 did	happen?	Wow.	You’re	lucky	to	be	alive.”

“Tell	me	about	it,”	I	said.	“Azer	saved	my	life.”

“She’s	a	good	dragon,”	Maren	said.	“I	like	her.	It’s	too	bad	she’s	already bonded,	or	I’d	love	to	pick	her.”

I	leaned	in	close	to	her	and	whispered,	“Master	Pevus	said	he	knows	we weren’t	lying	about	Josephine.”

“Really?”	she	asked	eagerly.

“Yes.	He	had	Anesko	watch	her	and	he	confirmed	the	same	thing.”

“Well,	I	heard	she	hasn’t	been	seen	in	the	last	few	hours.	Dragoons	were sent	to	arrest	her.	They	checked	her	room,	but	she’s	nowhere	to	be	found.”

“Maybe	she	fled	the	school?”	I	said.

“I	don’t	think	so.”

“Where	else	would	she	be?”

“I’m	not	sure,	but	I	plan	on	looking	for	her	today.”

“We	have	our	last	test	today,”	I	said.

“I	know.	I’m	going	to	sneak	off	and	come	back	before	it’s	my	turn.”

“Maren.”	I	stared	at	her.	“You	won’t	know	when	it’s	your	turn.	You’re

likely	to	be	late	and	then	…”	I	trailed	off	when	I	saw	the	hardness	in	her	eyes.

She’d	already	made	her	decision.

“I’m	not	asking	you	to	come	with	me,”	Maren	said.	“I	only	want	to	look around	and	see	if	I	can	find	any	sign	of	where	she’s	gone,	then	I’ll	let	Master Pevus	know.”

“What	about	our	date?”	I	asked,	changing	the	subject.

Maren	laughed.	“Did	you	think	I	forgot?	Just	because	it	didn’t	happen yesterday	doesn’t	mean	it	won’t	happen	at	all.”

“Fair	enough,”	I	replied.

Curate	Anesko	joined	our	group.	For	the	first	time	since	I’d	been	here,	he looked	tired.	His	eyes	had	small	puffy	bags	under	them	and	he	stifled	a	yawn.

“Today	is	the	final	test.	If	you	are	still	here,	you’ve	passed	the	first	two.

You’ll	notice	that	some	of	you	are	missing.	They’ve	failed	and	been	excused from	the	school.”

I	looked	around.	Anesko	wasn’t	lying.	At	least	a	third	of	our	group	was absent.	I	exchanged	glances	with	Maren.

“Strength	and	Arms.	That	is	what	today’s	test	will	entail.	If	you	want	to	be a	dragon	rider,	you	must	prove	you	have	the	strength	and	that	you	are capable	with	a	weapon.	There	will	be	several	parts	to	this	test,	including armed	combat	against	another	student.	Today	will	determine	if	you	will	be here	tomorrow.	Prepare	yourselves	for	what’s	to	come.	Follow	me.”

We	followed	Anesko	out	of	the	school	and	to	the	opposite	side	of	the Citadel	we’d	been	on	yesterday.	Master	Pevus	and	the	other	Curates	were there	waiting.	I	wondered	how	Master	Pevus	was	able	to	function	off	so	little sleep,	but	I	guessed	he	must	be	used	to	it.

Tree	branches,	all	thick	and	heavy	looking,	were	set	in	a	pile.	As	soon	as we	had	gathered	around	it,	Master	Pevus	pointed	at	the	branches	and	said,

“Grab	one	and	take	a	lap	around	the	city	of	Autumnwick.”

I	looked	at	Maren	in	uncertainty.	She	shrugged.	That	sounded	easy compared	to	everything	else	we’d	been	through.	None	of	us	moved,	obviously

waiting	for	the	rest	of	his	instructions.

“Well,	what	are	you	waiting	for?	Go!”

I	rushed	forward	and	grabbed	a	branch	and	hefted	it	onto	my	shoulders, then	ran	for	the	gate	that	led	to	the	city.	The	branch	was	heavier	than	it looked,	and	my	muscles	were	already	crying	out	in	protest.

Perhaps	this	wouldn’t	be	as	easy	as	I	thought.





18



By	the	time	I’d	made	it	around	the	entire	city	and	arrived	back	at	the Citadel,	I	was	ready	to	collapse	from	exhaustion.	The	lack	of	sleep	from	the night	before	wasn’t	helping	either.

Maren	jogged	in	shortly	after	me,	and	her	face	was	flushed	red.	A	layer	of sweat	glistened	on	her	forehead.	She	dropped	the	branch	and	bent	forward, placing	her	hands	on	her	knees	and	heaved	in	deep	breathes.	I	retrieved	a water	skin	and	brought	it	to	her.

“Thank	you,”	she	huffed.	She	drank	deeply	and	handed	the	skin	back	to me.

“You	all	right?”	I	asked.

“I’m	fine,”	she	replied.	“Just	didn’t	expect	that	first	thing	in	the	morning.”

“Tell	me	about	it,”	I	said.

“What	are	you	stopping	for?”	Curate	Anesko	said.	“The	next	obstacle	is ahead.”	He	pointed	to	a	wooden	wall	that	had	been	erected	with	ropes hanging	down	from	the	top	of	it.	“Climb	without	using	your	legs!”

I	gawked	at	Anesko,	but	if	he	saw	my	look,	he	ignored	it.	I	shook	my	head in	disbelief	and	ran	over	to	the	wall	and	grabbed	onto	one	of	the	ropes.	My mangled	hand	could	grip	the	rope,	but	I	wasn’t	sure	if	my	arm	had	the strength	to	lift	my	bodyweight	that	far.	The	wall	was	at	least	three	times	my height.

“You	can	do	this,”	Maren	said	from	beside	me.

Her	encouraging	words	lit	a	fire	inside	me	and	I	began	pulling	myself	up with	only	my	arms.	To	say	it	was	the	hardest	thing	I’d	ever	done	was	an understatement.	I	kept	sliding	down	and	burning	my	hands	on	the	rope.	For every	foot	I	gained,	I	lost	two.	A	frustrated	glance	around	me	showed everyone	was	struggling,	but	not	nearly	as	bad	as	I	was.

My	hands	were	blistered	raw	and	bleeding,	and	my	arms	were	burning

intensely.	I	hung	in	place	and	my	arms	were	shaking	so	much	I	thought about	just	giving	up.	And	then	I	reminded	myself	that	if	I	failed,	I	had nothing.	I	heaved	in	a	deep	breath	and	then	pushed	myself	further	than	I thought	possible	and	struggled	up	the	rope.	I	was	the	last	one	to	reach	the top,	but	I	made	it.

I	scrambled	down	the	other	side	and	followed	after	the	others.	One	of	the Curates	was	directing	us	into	a	long	trench	filled	with	mud.	Since	I	was	last	in line,	I	was	able	to	see	that	it	was	deep	enough	that	it	would	reach	my	chest.

When	it	was	my	turn,	I	leaped	into	the	trench,	splashing	into	the	mud.	It quickly	became	obvious	that	it	was	difficult	to	move	through.	I	was	so exhausted	I	wasn’t	sure	if	I	would	make	it	to	the	end	before	I	passed	out.

Everything	became	a	desperate	blur	and	the	next	thing	I	knew	I	was	lying at	the	other	end	of	the	trench	staring	into	the	sky.	My	robes	were	caked	with mud	and	weighed	heavily	on	me.	All	I	wanted	to	do	was	close	my	eyes	and sleep.	Maren’s	face	appeared	above	me	and	she	offered	her	hand.	I	clasped her	wrist	and	she	pulled	me	to	my	feet.

“Is	it	over	yet?”	I	asked.

“Not	even	close,”	Maren	replied.	“But	it	sounds	like	this	was	the	hardest portion.	Next	are	some	exercises	with	weapons.”

“That’s	great	to	hear.	I	can	do	weapons.”

We	walked	together	to	where	Master	Pevus	and	the	Curates	were	waiting.

The	other	students	were	gathered	around	them	in	a	circle,	some	kneeling and	others	lying	on	the	ground.

“Everyone	has	done	well	so	far,	but	now	the	easy	work	is	over,”	Curate Anesko	said.	Master	Pevus	tried	to	hide	his	grin,	but	I	saw	it	and	remembered his	words	from	the	night	before.

“The	remainder	of	the	day	will	consist	of	armed	combat.	You	will	each	be paired	with	a	senior	student.	Real	weapons	will	be	employed,	but	we	have healers	standing	by	in	the	event	anyone	is	grievously	wounded.”

Anesko	turned	full	circle	slowly,	looking	at	everyone	that	remained.

“Let	me	say	this:	if	you	are	injured	to	the	point	a	healer	is	needed,	you have	failed.	We	don’t	expect	you	to	beat	your	opponent,	as	most	of	you	likely won’t,	but	we	do	expect	you	to	hold	your	own	in	a	fight	and	show	that	you’re able	to	handle	a	weapon	without	chopping	your	leg	off.	If	anyone	has	any hesitation	about	their	abilities,	please	speak	up	now.”

I	watched	those	near	me	to	see	if	anyone	was	going	to	forfeit	the	last	test, but	no	one	did.	A	makeshift	arena	had	been	set	up,	with	a	circular	enclosure for	the	combatants	to	fight	inside	and	seating	around	it	for	everyone	to watch.	Knowing	that	everyone	would	be	watching	me	fight	made	me	a	little uneasy,	but	I	supposed	everyone	felt	that	way.

The	matches	started	much	like	the	other	tests.	A	student	was	called	by name	and	told	what	to	do,	then	outfitted	in	a	chainmail	shirt	and	given	a sword	of	their	choice	from	a	small	rack.	The	idea	of	using	my	father’s	sword was	great,	but	I	doubted	they	would	allow	me	that	privilege.	I	took	a	seat next	to	Maren	and	watched	as	the	first	student	walked	into	the	enclosure.

The	senior	student	he	was	up	against	was	also	wearing	a	chainmail	shirt and	held	his	sword	with	practiced	ease.	One	of	the	Curates	rang	a	bell	and	the two	combatants	circled	each	other,	offering	a	jab	here	and	there	to	test	one another’s	defenses.	I	began	formulating	tactics	for	how	I	hoped	my	test would	go.	After	a	few	more	circles	around	each	other,	the	two	clashed	in	a heated	battle.

I	watched	every	move	of	the	senior	student	intently,	curious	to	know	his style	and	compare	it	to	the	other	senior	students	as	the	matches	continued.	I wanted	to	have	an	edge	over	my	fellows	and	possibly	win	my	match.	As	the senior	student	whirled	around	and	slashed	his	blade	across	the	chest	of	his opponent,	I	realized	that	it	was	highly	unlikely	I	would	be	able	to	win.	If	it weren’t	for	the	chainmail	shirt,	the	student	would	have	received	a	deep	life-threatening	gash	in	his	chest.

“The	opponents	we	face	are	probably	going	to	make	us	look	like	children with	sticks,”	I	said	to	Maren.

“I	learned	how	to	defend	myself	from	the	captain	of	my	father’s	guard,”

Maren	replied.	“I’m	sure	I	can	hold	my	own.	How	long	do	you	think	each match	will	take?”

I	shrugged.	“If	they	all	go	like	this	one,	probably	not	long.	Why?”

Maren	looked	toward	the	gate	that	led	to	the	city	and	I	suspected	I	knew what	she	was	thinking.	She	looked	back	at	me	and	frowned.

“I	have	a	feeling	that	Josephine	is	still	here,”	she	said.

“I’m	sure	she	is,	but	you	promised	to	stay	out	of	trouble.”

“I	know,	but	…”	Maren	looked	toward	the	city	again.	“There’s	something	I can’t	explain	that’s	telling	me	I	need	to	find	her.	I	think	the	elderly	woman	is still	alive.”

I	bit	my	lip	and	considered	telling	her	to	go,	but	I	knew	that	if	she	were caught	leaving	or	wasn’t	back	in	time,	her	chance	at	proving	herself	worthy of	being	a	dragon	rider	would	be	gone.

“Just	wait	until	after	the	test	and	I’ll	go	with	you,”	I	said.	“It’ll	be	our date.”

Maren	didn’t	reply,	but	she	didn’t	leave,	either.	I	turned	my	attention back	to	the	enclosure	and	watched	the	next	match.	It	was	one	of	the	nobles who’d	hung	around	with	Simon.	He	lasted	a	little	longer	than	the	first student,	but	he	too	lost	his	match.

The	next	five	matches	were	all	the	same,	but	the	sixth	ended	up	being	a lot	bloodier.	A	student	who	had	probably	never	touched	a	sword	had	his hand	cut	almost	in	half.	The	healers	were	able	to	mend	it	quickly,	but	the student	was	shaken	and	was	escorted	from	the	enclosure	by	one	of	the Curates.

A	portion	of	the	sand	inside	the	enclosure	was	stained	with	the	student’s blood,	a	reminder	that	this	test	was	the	most	physically	dangerous.	Despite the	presence	of	the	healers,	I	found	it	almost	barbaric	to	allow	such	brutality as	part	of	a	test	to	join	the	school.	Then	again,	those	who	passed	would	be trained	for	combat,	riding	dragons	into	battle	and	probably	seeing	more

brutal	things	than	what	this	test	offered.	Still.

“Does	your	father	know	what	goes	on	here?”	I	asked.

“I’m	sure	he	does,”	Maren	replied.	“He	considers	the	dragoons	to	be	the most	powerful	part	of	his	army.	He	also	knows,	like	everyone	else,	that becoming	a	dragoon	is	far	from	easy.”

“That	makes	sense,”	I	said.

The	next	student	was	preparing	to	enter	the	enclosure.	So	far,	there	had been	a	different	senior	student	for	each	match.

“I	wonder	how	many	of	these	senior	students	have	seen	a	real	battle,”	I said.

Maren	didn’t	reply,	so	I	turned	to	look	at	her.

She	was	gone.





19



It	only	took	me	a	moment	to	decide	that	I	needed	to	follow	her.	She couldn’t	have	gotten	very	far,	so	I	waited	until	the	match	started	and	I	was certain	Master	Pevus	and	the	Curates	weren’t	paying	attention	to	anything except	the	battling	students.

I	jogged	toward	the	gate	that	led	to	the	city,	pausing	to	glance	around	the grounds	of	the	Citadel.	Maren	was	nowhere	to	be	seen,	but	I	wasn’t	entirely sure	that	she	had	planned	to	search	the	city	for	Josephine.	It	would	make sense	that	Josephine	would	hide	in	the	city	rather	than	within	the	Citadel somewhere,	though.

With	a	final	scan	of	the	area,	I	stepped	through	the	gate	and	into	the	city.

There	were	a	few	empty	buildings	adjacent	to	the	wall	that	surrounded	the Citadel.	They	appeared	to	have	once	been	used	for	warehouse	space.	A	single smaller	building	was	across	from	them.	I	was	going	to	continue	further	into the	city,	but	I	noticed	that	the	side	door	of	the	lone	building	was	cracked open.

It	could	have	been	nothing	relevant,	but	I	decided	it	was	better	to	check and	be	sure	than	to	possibly	miss	something.	I	walked	closer	and	heard sounds	within.	There	was	a	muffled	cry,	then	silence.	I	grew	nervous	as	I	got closer	to	the	door.	If	Josephine	and	Maren	were	in	there,	what	help	would	I be?	I	wasn’t	a	sorcerer	and	I	didn’t	know	how	to	fight	one,	either.	But	if	I	ran to	get	help,	it	could	be	too	late	for	Maren.

I	swallowed	hard	and	slipped	inside	the	building.	There	were	plenty	of windows,	but	the	wall	towered	high	enough	that	it	blocked	most	of	the natural	light.	It	wasn’t	dark,	but	it	was	dim	enough	that	it	gave	me	pause.

There	was	a	long	corridor	with	doors	on	either	side,	but	at	the	end	of	the corridor,	it	opened	up	into	a	large	room.

My	palms	were	getting	sweaty	and	I	wiped	them	on	my	robes,	which	only

made	things	worse	because	of	the	mud	on	the	garment.	Moving	as	quietly	as	I could,	I	headed	for	the	large	room	at	the	end.	I	heard	movement	and	stopped mid-step.	Someone	was	talking,	but	it	was	low	and	I	couldn’t	make	out	the words.

I	risked	a	glance	and	saw	all	I	needed	to.	The	elderly	woman	that	had	been bound	in	Josephine’s	room	was	on	the	floor,	curled	into	a	ball.	Her	eyes	were closed,	but	she	was	breathing.	And	next	to	her	was	Maren.	I	ground	my	teeth in	anger.

Maren’s	arms	were	bound	behind	her	back	and	she	was	sitting	on	her knees,	a	roll	of	cloth	in	her	mouth.	Pacing	back	and	forth	anxiously	was Josephine.	I	leaned	back	against	the	wall,	trying	to	figure	out	what	I	should do.

“I	can	kill	them	both	right	now,”	Josephine	said,	talking	aloud	to	herself	as she	paced.	“No	one	will	ever	find	their	bodies,	but	how	do	I	avoid	suspicion?

That	is	the	problem.”

By	the	way	she	was	conversing,	it	sounded	like	she	was	trying	to	talk herself	into	committing	the	deed.	Perhaps	she	had	more	of	a	conscience	than I	knew.	And	if	she	wasn’t	completely	set	on	the	course,	maybe	I	could	say something	to	keep	her	from	hurting	them?	What	could	I	say,	though?	I	didn’t get	much	time	to	think	about	it,	because	Josephine	paced	past	the	opening	of the	corridor	and	stopped	when	she	saw	me.

Her	eyes	widened	briefly,	then	she	stepped	behind	Maren,	lifted	her	to	her feet,	and	pressed	a	wicked-looking	dagger	to	Maren’s	throat.

“Don’t	move,”	Josephine	snapped.

I	raised	my	hands	in	front	of	me,	palms	toward	her.	“I’m	not	armed,”	I informed	her.

“I	don’t	believe	you,”	Josephine	said,	narrowing	her	eyes	at	me.	“Who	did you	bring	with	you?”

“Nobody,”	I	replied.	“And	I’m	not	lying.	I	don’t	have	any	weapons.”

“How	did	you	find	me?”

“By	accident	…	but	the	open	door	of	the	building	was	a	good	clue.”

Josephine	scowled	and	pushed	the	blade	harder	against	Maren’s	skin, cutting	a	small	line	that	bled	a	little.	Anger	was	boiling	within	me,	but	I refused	to	do	anything	rash.

“You	don’t	have	to	do	this,”	I	said.	“Just	let	them	go.”

“You	don’t	understand,”	Josephine	said.	“I	 must	do	this.”

“Why?	Because	that	man	told	you	to?”

“What	do	you	know	of	him?”

“Nothing,”	I	said.	“Other	than	the	fact	that	he	radiates	evil.”

“He	is	evil.	If	I	don’t	do	this,	he’ll	kill	me.”

“Not	if	he	can’t	find	you,”	I	said.	“Turn	yourself	into	Master	Pevus	and	I’m sure	he	will	help	you.”

Josephine	laughed.	It	bordered	on	maniacal	and	helpless	all	at	once.

“Pevus	will	be	dead	before	long,	and	he	won’t	be	able	to	help	anyone.	No,	no one	can	help	me.	I	will	do	this	and	prove	my	loyalty	to	the	Necromancer.”

So	that’s	what	people	called	him?	I	wondered	what	it	meant.	If	we	made	it out	of	this	predicament,	I	was	going	to	ask	Maren.

“What	for?	You	murder	two	innocent	people	to	prove	to	someone	that	you are	no	better	than	he	is?	Please,	Josephine.	Think	about	this.”

“I’ve	thought	plenty	about	this!”	Josephine	growled.	“There	is	no	other way!	It’s	either	follow	his	orders	or	die.”

I	felt	utterly	helpless.	My	arguments	weren’t	seeming	to	sway	the	Curate at	all,	and	she	seemed	so	afraid	of	the	Necromancer	that	she	felt	she	had	no other	options.	I	did	the	only	thing	I	could	do.	I	begged.

“Please.”

Josephine	stared	at	me.	I	didn’t	know	if	sorcerers	could	read	thoughts,	but I	projected	everything	I	could	into	my	mind	that	I	couldn’t	put	into	words and	hoped	she	would	understand.	Whether	or	not	that’s	what	did	it,	I	didn’t know,	but	she	lowered	the	blade	slightly.

“She’s	your	friend,”	Josephine	said.

“Yes.”

“And	you	came	here	to	help	her	even	though	you	had	no	way	to	fight me?”

“Yes,”	I	said	again.	There	was	a	lump	growing	in	my	throat,	but	I swallowed	hard	and	tried	not	to	let	it	break	my	voice,	but	the	tremor	was obvious.

The	silence	stretched	into	what	felt	like	an	eternity.	I	started	to	worry that	Josephine	was	going	to	ignore	my	plea.	Maren	was	looking	at	me,	so	I held	her	gaze	with	my	own.	Whatever	happened,	at	least	neither	of	us	was alone.

“Maybe	if	I	had	…”	Josephine	started	to	say,	then	trailed	off.	Her	eyes hardened,	then	they	became	watery,	filling	with	tears.

“Go,”	she	hissed,	pushing	Maren	toward	me.	Maren	staggered	and	fell.	I slowly	knelt	and	helped	her	up,	keeping	my	eyes	on	Josephine.	She	watched me	quietly,	but	I	could	still	see	the	turmoil	on	her	face.

“Come	with	us	to	Master	Pevus,”	I	said.

“Go,”	she	repeated,	her	tone	dangerous.

I	nodded	and	helped	Maren	to	her	feet	and	removed	the	cloth	from	her mouth.	The	elderly	woman	was	still	asleep,	and	when	I	stepped	toward	her, Josephine	raised	the	dagger	at	me.	I	backed	away	and	grabbed	Maren’s	hand, pulling	her	with	me.

“We	have	to	help	the	woman,”	Maren	protested.

“We’ll	come	back	for	her,”	I	whispered.	“With	Master	Pevus.”

That	seemed	to	ease	Maren’s	hesitation.	We	hurried	along	the	corridor	to the	door.	I	tried	to	untie	the	ropes	around	Maren’s	wrists,	but	it	was	difficult to	do	while	we	were	moving.	I	pushed	Maren	through	the	doorway	and looked	back.

Josephine	was	still	there.	She	hadn’t	tried	to	stop	us.	The	elderly	woman was	still	her	prisoner,	but	I	was	confident	we	could	reach	Master	Pevus before	Josephine	escaped	with	her.	She	wouldn’t	kill	the	woman.	I	knew	she

wouldn’t.	She	was	too	conflicted	with	herself	to	do	it.	As	I	was	about	to	close the	door,	Josephine	lifted	the	dagger.	I	stopped,	too	horrified	to	look	away.

The	Curate	drove	the	dagger	down,	into	her	own	chest.	I	slammed	the door	closed	and	cried	out,	pulling	Maren	toward	the	Citadel.	I	couldn’t believe	my	eyes.	Josephine	had	stabbed	herself.	Why	would	she	do	such	a thing?

“What	happened?”	Maren	asked,	still	struggling	to	get	free	of	her	bonds.

I	wanted	to	tell	her,	but	the	words	wouldn’t	come	out	of	my	mouth.	My throat	was	constricted	tight	and	it	was	all	I	could	do	to	breathe.	We	made	it back	to	where	the	others	were,	and	Maren	shouted	to	get	someone’s attention.	Everything	became	a	blur	for	me.	The	stress	of	the	day,	the physical	and	mental	exhaustion,	everything	weighed	on	me	and	I	collapsed near	the	stands.

Maren	screamed.	I	didn’t	know	if	anyone	heard	her	over	the	commotion of	ringing	steel.	I	didn’t	care.	I	had	experienced	death	before,	but	this	was something	different,	something	so	heavy	that	I	didn’t	know	how	I	would	bear it.

“Are	you	all	right?”	I	recognized	Master	Pevus’s	voice,	but	it	sounded	far away.	“What	happened?”

I	pointed	toward	the	way	we’d	come.	“Josephine,”	I	gasped.	“She’s	dead.”





20



I	didn’t	know	how	much	time	had	passed	when	the	storm	of	emotions finally	passed.

Maren	had	stayed	with	me	almost	the	entire	time,	aside	from	her	test, holding	my	mangled	hand	and	occasionally	whispering	soft	words	or	making soothing	sounds.	We	sat	in	the	stands	and	I	was	vaguely	aware	of	the	other students	staring	at	me	and	whispering	to	one	another.

“Let	them	wonder,”	Maren	said.	“You	don’t	have	to	tell	them	anything.”

I	wouldn’t	tell	them,	even	if	they	begged	to	know.	No	one	needed	that knowledge,	that	pain.	Eventually,	Master	Pevus	came	to	sit	with	us.	The other	students	finished	their	testing,	but	I	barely	heard	any	of	the	noise.

“Death	is	not	an	easy	thing	to	witness,”	Master	Pevus	said.	“Especially	a death	as	tragic	as	Josephine’s.”

“I	don’t	understand	it,”	I	whispered.

“Neither	do	I.	Not	fully.”

Master	Pevus	stared	at	the	enclosure	quietly.	I	started	to	feel	a	little	more normal,	though	I	was	exhausted.	Everything	felt	dreamlike,	and	for	a moment	I	wondered	if	any	of	it	had	even	really	happened.

“Do	you	think	you	can	take	the	test?”	Master	Pevus	asked.	“I	can	try	to push	it	back,	but	the	decision	is	not	mine	alone.”

“What	do	you	mean?”	Maren	asked.

“The	council	here	at	the	Citadel	is	only	one	of	many,	and	we	all	report	to the	Conclave.	We	have	orders	that	the	testing	must	be	completed	today,	but	I can	send	a	letter	requesting	more	time.”

“No,”	I	finally	spoke.	My	throat	was	dry,	so	it	sounded	more	like	a croaking	noise.	“No,”	I	repeated.	“I	will	take	the	test.”

“Eldwin,”	Maren	said,	squeezing	my	hand.	“You	need	some	rest.”

“No,	I’m	fine.	I	can	do	it.	I	 need	to	do	it.”

Master	Pevus	seemed	like	he	was	about	to	object,	but	he	bowed	his	head and	stood	up.	“Let	us	get	you	ready,	then.”

I	stood	up	and	followed	Master	Pevus	around	the	enclosure	to	where	the racks	of	armor	and	weapons	were.	Curate	Anesko	was	there	and	he	helped me	put	a	chainmail	shirt	on.	Some	of	the	other	students	came	out	of	the Citadel	and	joined	Maren	in	the	stands.	I	didn’t	know	why	they	wanted	to watch	my	test,	but	I	ignored	them.	I	hoped	the	test	would	take	my	mind	off everything	else.

Anesko	handed	me	a	helm	and	I	slipped	it	onto	my	head,	then	stared	at the	rack	of	weapons.	There	were	numerous	swords,	a	few	axes,	and	a	single mace.	I	chose	a	blade	that	was	closest	to	the	size	and	heft	of	my	father’s sword	and	nodded	at	Anesko.	He	led	me	into	the	enclosure	and	said,	“Good luck.	Sebastian	is	one	of	the	best.”

I	assumed	he	was	trying	to	make	me	second	guess	myself,	so	I	didn’t	pay his	last	comment	any	attention.

On	the	other	side	of	the	circular	battleground	was	my	opponent, Sebastian.	It	was	impossible	to	tell	if	I’d	seen	him	before	because	he	was wearing	a	helm	with	a	visor.	I	took	a	few	practice	swings,	stretching	my muscles.

This	was	it.	My	final	test.	The	defining	moment	that	would	determine	my future.	I	took	a	deep	breath	and	exhaled	slowly,	then	rolled	my	shoulders and	prepared	for	the	bell	to	ring.	A	few	moments	later,	the	 clang	echoed across	the	battleground.

I	stalked	forward	slowly,	watching	Sebastian’s	posture.	He	moved	with confidence	and	the	ease	of	a	skilled	warrior.	Perhaps	Anesko’s	comment wasn’t	entirely	exaggerated.	We	circled	one	another	like	giant	hunting	cats, prepared	to	pounce	at	any	moment.	Sebastian	made	the	first	move.	He rushed	me	and	swung	his	sword	horizontally,	trying	to	strike	me	in	the chest.	I	lifted	my	blade	and	blocked	it.

The	blades	clanged	together	loudly.	I	was	surprised	at	Sebastian’s	strength

and	almost	lost	my	grip	on	the	hilt.	Although	my	right	arm	was	shriveled compared	to	my	left,	I	was	right-handed.	I’d	tried	a	few	times	to	use	my	left arm	more,	but	it	felt	awkward	and	unnatural.

It	quickly	became	evident	as	Sebastian	struck	again	and	again	that	my right	arm	could	not	hold	up	under	the	onslaught.	He	was	keeping	me	on	the defensive,	and	I	knew	I	had	to	turn	the	tide	against	him	somehow.	I	dropped to	one	knee	as	Sebastian	swung	at	me,	and	it	left	him	open	as	his	sword	flew harmlessly	above	my	head.

I	jabbed	my	blade	straight	into	his	ribcage.	At	least,	that’s	where	I	aimed my	strike.	Just	as	quickly	as	the	opening	had	come,	it	was	gone,	and Sebastian	had	adjusted	his	stance.	The	next	thing	I	saw	was	his	thick	boot coming	straight	for	my	head.	I	threw	myself	backward	to	dodge	his	foot	and slammed	hard	onto	the	ground.	The	force	was	a	little	painful,	but	I	ignored	it and	rolled	to	the	side	and	scrambled	back	onto	my	feet.

Sebastian	came	at	me	again,	his	blade	glinting	from	the	sunlight.	It	flashed brilliantly	and	I	was	momentarily	blinded.	I	brought	my	sword	up	to	try	and block	the	blow	I	was	expecting,	but	it	never	came.	Instead,	pain	exploded	in my	knee	and	flared	up	my	leg.	I	cried	out	in	surprise	and	agony	as	my	leg gave	out	and	I	crashed	to	the	ground.	I	released	my	hold	on	the	hilt	and grabbed	my	knee.

“Do	you	need	a	healer?”	Sebastian	asked,	lifting	his	visor.	His	eyes	were creased	with	worry.

I	don’t	know	why	I	did	it.	Perhaps	it	was	the	anger	or	the	exhaustion,	but	I wasn’t	in	my	right	mind.	I	nodded,	but	it	was	a	lie.	I	was	in	pain,	but	it	wasn’t as	bad	as	I	pretended,	and	it	was	quickly	fading.	As	soon	as	Sebastian	turned his	back	to	me,	I	snatched	my	sword	up	and	drove	it	into	the	back	of	his	legs, right	behind	his	knees.	A	few	of	the	students	in	the	stands	cried	out,	clearly not	liking	what	they	saw.

Red,	hot	rage	flooded	my	vision	and	I	went	to	strike	Sebastian	again,	but he	crawled	out	of	range	on	all	fours.	To	his	credit,	he	was	still	holding	onto

his	blade.	I	went	after	him,	but	he	was	quicker	than	I	anticipated	and	got back	to	his	feet	and	twirled	gracefully	in	a	circle,	his	sword	held outstretched.	I	leaped	backward,	but	the	tip	of	his	blade	grazed	the	chainmail that	covered	my	arm.

I	was	suddenly	overcome	with	guilt	for	my	actions,	but	there	was	no	time to	apologize.	It	was	obvious	that	I’d	angered	Sebastian,	for	he	held	nothing back.	He	pressed	his	attack,	his	sword	a	flurry	of	strikes	that	I	couldn’t	keep up	with.	He	knocked	my	sword	out	of	my	grasp	and	landed	a	solid	strike across	my	chest.	Throbbing	pain	erupted	across	my	flesh	despite	the	armor	I wore.	Between	that	and	my	general	exhaustion,	I	knew	I	couldn’t	defeat Sebastian.	I	collapsed	to	my	knees	and	put	my	hands	up	in	surrender.

“Do	you	yield?”	Curate	Anesko	shouted	from	outside	the	enclosure.

“Yes,”	I	tried	to	shout	back,	but	I	didn’t	know	if	he	heard	me.

Sebastian	removed	his	helm,	gave	me	one	last	long	stare,	then	left	the battleground.	As	I	sat	there	in	the	dirt,	the	realization	that	I	had	probably failed	the	test	began	to	set	in.	Not	only	had	I	let	my	anger	get	the	better	of me,	but	I	had	also	given	up.	None	of	it	could	look	good	for	me.

I	slowly	got	to	my	feet	and	returned	my	armor	and	weapon	to	the	racks.

Maren	joined	me	as	I	walked	to	the	Citadel.

“What	am	I	going	to	do	now?”	I	asked.

“Nothing	until	you	know	your	results,”	she	replied.

“You	know	I	failed	as	well	as	I	do.	There	was	no	excuse	for	what	I	did.”

“True,	but	you	did	just	go	through	a	traumatic	ordeal.	That	has	to	be taken	into	account.”

Maren	had	a	point,	but	still.	The	sinking	feeling	in	my	stomach	was making	me	feel	like	I	was	going	to	vomit.	Master	Pevus	said	anyone	who failed	had	their	memory	magically	erased	so	that	they	didn’t	remember being	at	the	school	or	anything	they	learned.	I	couldn’t	allow	that	to	happen.

I	 wouldn’t	allow	it	to	happen.

Maren	was	talking	about	her	test,	but	I	wasn’t	listening.	I	was	plotting	out

how	I	would	escape	the	Citadel	before	Master	Pevus	could	erase	my	memory.

There	were	so	many	obstacles,	though.	I	had	to	get	past	guards,	not	get caught	outside	of	my	room	past	curfew,	and	that	was	assuming	they	didn’t erase	my	memory	without	warning.

If	this	was	going	to	work,	I	would	need	help.	I	looked	at	Maren	and watched	her	lips	move	as	she	spoke.	She	loved	breaking	rules,	so	I	had	little doubt	she’d	be	willing	to	help	me.	She	noticed	my	stare	and	paused.

“If	there	something	in	my	teeth?”	she	asked.

“No,”	I	replied.

“Then	why	are	you	staring	at	me?”	she	asked.

“I	need	your	help.”

“With	what?”

I	glanced	around	and	lowered	my	voice.	“With	breaking	into	the	armory.”





21



The	next	morning,	I	awoke	bleary-eyed	and	more	tired	than	I	had probably	ever	been	in	my	entire	life.	Maren	and	I	had	been	up	all	night devising	my	plan	of	escape	and	breaking	into	the	armory	to	retrieve	my father’s	sword.

Maren	had	left	the	Citadel	and	somehow	snuck	outside	the	city	of Autumnwick	to	hide	my	father’s	sword	in	a	thicket	near	the	lake	for	me.	She said	it	had	been	easy	and	had	hidden	the	weapon	so	that	only	I	would	be	able to	find	it.	I	assumed	she	used	a	spell	of	some	kind.	After	everything	had	been planned,	we	parted	ways	and	went	to	our	rooms.	I	hadn’t	slept	much,	though what	little	rest	I	did	get	had	been	dreamless.

I	was	both	excited	and	terrified	to	find	out	if	I	had	passed	or	not.

Everything	I	wanted,	everything	I	was,	hinged	on	my	results.	I	rolled	out	of bed	and	put	my	robes	on,	then	headed	down	to	the	dining	hall	for	breakfast.

The	thought	that	this	could	be	the	last	time	I	knew	I’d	have	a	meal	was	a little	disconcerting.	It	was	funny	how	quickly	I	had	grown	accustomed	to	full meals	in	the	short	time	I’d	been	here.

Maren	eventually	joined	me	at	my	table	and	we	ate	in	silence.	I	was hoping	I’d	be	able	to	give	her	a	proper	goodbye	if	I	did	have	to	escape	the Citadel,	but	I	also	knew	that	might	not	happen.	She	had	to	be	aware	of	that fact	as	well.	I	assumed	that’s	why	she	didn’t	talk	much.

After	we	ate,	we	headed	back	to	our	normal	meeting	place	to	await	Curate Anesko.	Normally,	some	of	the	other	students	straggled	into	the	group	last minute,	but	today	was	different.	Everyone	who	remained	was	on	time.	There were	less	than	twenty	of	us.	Out	of	one	hundred	potentials,	only	a	fifth	were left.	It	was	crazy	to	think	I	had	made	it	this	far	only	to	potentially	fail	now.

Curate	Anesko’s	footsteps	echoed	softly	off	the	stone	walls	as	he	joined	us.

His	face	was	solemn,	much	different	than	his	normal	stern	appearance.	There

were	bags	under	his	eyes,	and	I	guessed	that	he	had	been	up	late	with	Master Pevus	and	the	other	Curates,	deciding	the	fates	of	those	few	students	who remained.

“Today	some	of	you	will	become	full	students,”	he	said.	He	swept	his	gaze over	everyone.	“And	some	of	you,	sadly,	will	be	leaving	this	place	forever.”

The	word	forever	sounded	so	…cold.	Barren.	Final.	But	of	course,	it	was.	It was	all	those	things	and	more.

“If	I	call	your	name,	you	will	follow	me.	If	I	don’t,	then	you	will	follow Curate	Henrik.”

One	of	the	students	raised	a	hand.

“Yes?”	Anesko	asked.

“Are	the	groups	divided	into	those	who	passed	and	those	who	failed?”

“They	are,	but	if	you’re	expecting	me	to	inform	you	which	group	you’re in,	then	you’ll	be	disappointed.	Any	other	questions?”

No	one	had	any.	Anesko	called	out	almost	everyone’s	name.	Two	people weren’t	called	and	they	left	with	Curate	Henrik.	It	seemed	obvious	that	the two	who	weren’t	called	had	failed	and	were	being	led	off	to	have	their memory	erased.	It	seemed	surreal	that	I	had	passed.	Without	another	word, Anesko	led	us	through	the	Citadel	to	the	temple	where	our	first	test	had occurred.

Master	Pevus	stood	beside	the	temple	doors,	welcoming	every	student with	a	tired	smile.	Maren	and	I	were	at	the	end	of	the	line,	and	after	Maren stepped	through	the	threshold,	Master	Pevus	stepped	in	front	of	me.

“Eldwin,”	he	greeted.	“Please,	come	with	me.”

My	trepidation	returned,	but	mainly	because	I	had	no	idea	why	he	pulled me	aside.	Maren	looked	back	at	me	and	I	shrugged,	then	followed	Master Pevus’s	lead.	We	walked	through	several	of	the	halls	and	eventually	reached the	servant’s	door	that	Maren	had	shown	me	when	we’d	secretly	went	to	see the	dragons.

“I’m	sure	you’re	curious	about	where	we’re	going,”	Master	Pevus	said.

“Yes,	Master.	It	does	seem	odd	to	me	that	we’re	going	out	the	servant’s door,”	I	replied	before	realizing	my	error.	Master	Pevus	smiled.

“I	see	the	princess	has	shown	you	this	door	already.”

“Please	don’t	punish	her,”	I	said.

“I	won’t.	Besides,	it’s	not	a	secret	door.	It’s	just	how	the	servants	come	and go.”

I	breathed	a	sigh	of	relief.	Master	Pevus	pushed	the	door	open	and	we stepped	outside.	It	was	still	early	in	the	day,	and	the	air	was	cool.	It	felt refreshing	to	be	outdoors.	My	curiosity	started	to	grow	as	he	led	me	around to	the	entrance	of	the	dragon	stables.	The	two	guards	at	the	entrance	were playing	dice	and	quickly	stood	up	when	they	saw	Master	Pevus	and	I approaching.

Master	Pevus	ignored	them	and	continued	walking,	leading	me	deeper into	the	stables.	There	were	many	more	torches	lit	than	when	I’d	been	here before,	and	the	details	of	the	cave’s	carvings	were	revealed.	Long,	jagged lines	were	scraped	into	the	rocks	that	formed	the	ceiling,	floor,	and	walls.

“Dragons	created	this	system	of	caves,”	Master	Pevus	said.	“Long	before the	Citadel	was	ever	built.	It	was	a	breeding	ground,	but	as	humans	began	to domesticate	dragons,	they	stopped	laying	their	eggs	here.”

“I’ve	never	heard	that	before,”	I	said.

“This	place	holds	a	lot	more	secrets,	though	many	of	them	have	been	lost to	the	centuries.	Tell	me,	Eldwin.	Did	your	father	tell	you	the	color	of	his dragon?”

“He	rode	a	blue,”	I	said.

“Indeed,	he	did.	Blues	are	known	for	their	speed,	as	they	are	the	fastest	of all	the	colors.”

We	stopped	outside	one	of	the	caves.	A	large	dragon	head	appeared	as	the massive	creature	moved	into	the	light.	It	was	the	same	dragon	that	had	spit phlegm	on	me.	The	dragon	sniffed	the	air	and	turned	its	glowing	eyes	on	me.

“This	is	Phlandyr,”	Master	Pevus	said.	“She	is	a	red	dragon,	though	it	may

be	hard	to	tell	in	this	light.”

“Hello	Phlandyr,”	I	said.

I	felt	something	press	against	my	mind,	but	it	was	faint.

“I	thought	we	weren’t	allowed	near	dragons	until	we	were	promoted	to the	rank	of	Adept?”	I	asked.

“As	a	general	rule,	you’re	not,”	Master	Pevus	confirmed.	He	went	quiet and	I	stared	into	Phlandyr’s	eyes.	They	were	a	yellowish	hue	with	black pupils.

“Eldwin,	I’m	sorry	to	inform	you	that	you	have	failed.”

“What?”	My	heart	skipped	a	beat	and	fell	into	my	stomach.

“You	did	well	in	the	first	test,	despite	the	outside	forces	that	affected	it.

The	second	test	was	interrupted,	but	not	before	we	were	able	to	see	your	skill with	magic.	Yesterday’s	test,	however,	showed	that	you	do	not	handle frustration	and	failure	well.	You	allowed	your	anger	to	direct	your	actions.	A dragon	rider	must	always	have	a	clear	mind,	empty	of	emotions.”

“Can	I	retake	the	test?”	I	asked.

“I’m	afraid	not.”

“Please,	Master,”	I	begged.	My	eyes	welled	with	tears.	“I	can’t	go	home.

There’s	nothing	for	me	there.	I	have	to	be	a	dragon	rider.”

“I’m	sorry,	Eldwin.	The	only	way	you’ll	ever	ride	a	dragon	is	if	you	find your	own.”

I	felt	a	tear	slip	free	of	my	eye.	It	trailed	down	my	cheek.

“I	thought	long	and	hard	about	this,	but	I	have	decided	to	let	you experience	what	flying	on	the	back	of	a	dragon	is	like.	Your	father	was	a hero,	and	to	honor	his	memory,	I	thought	this	would	be	fitting.”

“Thank	you,”	I	said.	“But	what’s	the	point	if	you	are	just	going	to	erase	my memory?”

Master	Pevus	remained	silent,	but	he	stepped	into	the	cave	and	saddled Phlandyr,	then	led	her	out	of	the	cave.	I	walked	at	his	side,	trying	to	figure out	a	way	to	escape.	My	plans	with	Maren	had	been	based	around	being

locked	in	a	room	somewhere,	not	out	in	the	open	on	the	back	of	a	dragon.

Master	Pevus	mounted	Phlandyr	and	offered	me	his	hand.

I	accepted	it	and	climbed	into	the	saddle	behind	him,	then	gripped	the horn	of	the	saddle	tightly.	Without	any	verbal	command,	Phlandyr	leaped into	the	air	and	flapped	her	enormous	wings.	We	climbed	higher	and	higher into	the	air,	the	castle	below	quickly	shrinking.	Phlandyr	banked	to	the	right and	she	issued	a	roar.

There	were	no	words	to	describe	the	feeling	of	being	on	the	back	of	a dragon,	flying	through	the	sky.	I	looked	out	at	the	vast	landscape	that stretched	for	miles	in	every	direction.	Trees	that	seemed	enormous	on	the ground	looked	like	small	sticks,	and	I	could	see	the	entirety	of	the	giant	lake that	spread	out	behind	the	Citadel.

The	air	whipped	around	me,	pulling	at	my	robes	and	making	my	hair ruffle	wildly.	We	flew	over	the	lake	and	I	looked	down.	Phlandyr	dipped lower,	flying	only	a	few	feet	above	the	water’s	surface.	The	lake	was	crystal clear	and	I	could	see	fish	swimming	about.	As	amazing	as	the	experience	was, I	knew	I	was	running	out	of	time.	Once	we	landed,	the	chances	of	escaping from	the	Citadel	would	be	slim.

The	only	way	you’ll	ever	ride	a	dragon	is	if	you	find	your	own.

Those	words	burned	in	my	mind	and	I	had	an	idea.	It	was	crazy,	foolish even,	but	I	had	no	other	choice.	I	let	go	of	the	saddle	horn	and	swung	my right	leg	over	to	the	same	side	as	my	left.	Master	Pevus	tried	to	turn	around to	see	what	I	was	doing,	but	he	was	having	trouble.	I	did	a	silent	countdown, then	pushed	myself	off	the	side	of	the	dragon	just	as	she	bounded	upward.

I	flipped	end	over	end	and	saw	Master	Pevus’s	horrified	expression	before he	was	too	far	away	to	see	anymore.	I	tried	to	right	myself,	but	I	slammed into	the	water	with	jarring	force.	My	body	screamed	in	agony	and	then	I	was underwater,	struggling	with	which	direction	was	up.	I	pumped	my	arms furiously	and	kicked	with	my	legs	until	I	broke	the	surface	of	the	water,	then I	gasped	in	deep	breaths.

Time	was	my	enemy.	I	turned	and	swam	for	the	shore	as	fast	as	I	could.	I heard	Phlandyr’s	roars	and	they	drove	me	to	keep	swimming	even	though my	muscles	wanted	to	give	in.	I	reached	the	shore	and	sprinted	to	the	thicket of	trees	that	Maren	had	told	me	about.	The	air	rippled,	and	then	I	saw	my father’s	sword.	The	sheath	was	attached	to	a	belt	and	had	been	hung	on	a	low hanging	branch.

I	grabbed	it	and	strapped	the	belt	on,	then	ran	in	the	opposite	direction	of the	Citadel.	I	had	no	idea	where	I	was	going,	but	I	refused	to	let	Master	Pevus erase	my	memories.	He	said	that	the	only	way	I	would	ride	a	dragon	was	to find	my	own.	So	be	it.

I	ran	as	fast	as	I	could.	Away	from	the	Citadel	and	toward	an	uncertain future.

I	was	going	to	find	a	dragon	of	my	own.





THE	END	OF	BOOK	ONE





The	journey	continues	with	A	Bond	of	Flame,	available	February	15!

Signup	for	my	newsletter	here	to	get	notified	when	it’s	live!





OTHER	BOOKS



Hey	there!

I	write	fantasy	and	space	opera,	and	you	can	find	all	my	books	in	many different	eBook	stores.	You	can	check	out	my	website	for	more	information about	my	books,	my	next	projects,	and	events	I’ll	be	attending	where	you	can meet	me	and	even	get	signed	books.

If	you	enjoyed	this	book,	I’d	love	your	feedback	in	the	form	of	a	review!

Thanks	for	reading!

-Richard



WEBSITE

www.richardfierce.com



FANTASY

The	Fallen	King	Chronicles

Dragonsphere

The	Fallen	King

The	Valiant	King

The	Restored	King



Magic	and	Monsters

The	Wizard	and	the	Frog



Spellbreather	Novels

Smoke	and	Blood



Anthologies

Chronicles	of	Mirstone



Standalone

Shard	of	the	Sun



SPACE	OPERA

Galactic	Mercenaries

Steel	for	Hire

Steel	for	Free

Steel	for	All





Document Outline


Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

Chapter 12

Chapter 13

Chapter 14

Chapter 15

Chapter 16

Chapter 17

Chapter 18

Chapter 19

Chapter 20

Chapter 21





